. raca 19] noras on TIBERIUS. 16

11. adversus convicia, ctat so Dio, lvii. 9, who says that Tiberi
overlooked insolent conduct toward himself, hut was J'ealous in main
taining the respect due to the memory oi Angustus. Ultimately, hi
continues, Tiberius pnt many to death.

13. firmus: drothoveri. ’

, 18. fenestram: we say ‘door' in this connection.

21. locutus aliter tuerit: tf hc shall spech ιιι of aaa Loqu
aliter is probably equivalent to lophi secus, though the phrase doe
not occnr elsewhere with this force. lt is not known to whom Tiberin
is referring. ut rationem reddam: as we may say, ‘to give .
good account'

26¹. humanitatis: courtesy.

· Page 19. 5. nequetam parvum, etc..·'cf. note onp. 16. 3.

7. de quo non . . . referretur: concerntnp which repert toas no
accde. Reserretur is here used impersonally.

8. monopoliis: these monopolies were a imittnl source ot com

plaint on the part ci the provinciale. Pliny, N. Η. viii. 135, in speak

’ ing oi the shin and qnills ot the porcnpine, used in carding wool

Ι remarks: “From the monopoly oi this article¹ great irauds and grea
¹ profits have resulted; there is no snhject on which the senate ha·
more frequently passed decrees, and there is not one oi the emperor
who has not received irom the provinces complaints respecting it ’³

10. descriptione: ιιιινιιιιιιιοιι

15. lectica quondam introlatus aeger: mo, lvii 17, remarv
that it was usual for senators who on account oi ill health could no
go in the usual way, to he conveyed to the senate' m litt ters.

17. ne questus qmdem eat toran example oi thrs moderatron
scenio, lvii. 27, where he tells oi Tiberins' conduct toward thos·
who disagreed with him. negante eo destinatos, etc: notwt'th

ειιιιιιιιιιρ his sociarat that nchisttct es when rhosan copht ιιοι ιο h:
absent, bct ιἰιιιιαιιιιιιι thccityoaddecctethctr· citent icntc ttheoffic.
they hodrccetccd α praetor eltec tested fort ctwdteceiocd pet :attestant ι
traval with rach of cttttassactor. The verb ccqtticscere with the dativ·
seems, in several passages oi Suetonius, tc have the force oi the ex
pressions occare or opernm dore; cs. Vttett. 14, vaticinante Ocu
attollere, cdi celtct oraculo acquiescebat. This meaning is not recog
nized in the dictionaries (found, however, in the Thesaurus Linque
Latinae), and the usual interpretation is, ‘to he content with' Thi
is the meaning of the vcrh when it is used with the ablative case
with or without the preposition tn ; cs. note on p. 30. 18.

 

