220 noras on CALIGULA. ⁸ [Pras 57

14. quadripedes. . . coercuit: cortdaccl theat ia capes, ca all
joan. medios serra dissecuit: saraed ta tao. ’

16. munere: placitatoria stota per genium suum deieras-
sent: siccat· ha lus (setrius,⁴ te. as though he were their guardian deity.

17. parentes supplicio filiorum: Dic, lix. 25, cites one instance.
Caligula had ordered Cassius Betillinns put to death in the presence
oi his father, Capito. When the latter in irony asked ii he might he
allowed to wink, Caligula put h'un to death as well.

18. valetudinem excusanti: astina to ‚he eactlsed because of tlt
health. ’

19. statim adhibuit: Seneca, Dc Ira, ii. 33, gives the details. The
iather's name was Pastor, and he was a knight oi distinction. The
son, because ci his neat perscual appearance, had arcused the jealousy
oi the emperor.

22. catenis: aith chains

23. Atellanae:icr the Atellanae, see note on p. 41. 18. ’

24. amphitheatri: the amphitheatre oi Taurus ᾗ see note on p.
5. 24. harena: see Introd. ll. 52, a (2).

31. circum insulas: to tlte different islaucls. Philo states that
this slaughter uras perpetrated by Gaius.

32. cum discerpi senatorem, etc: the senator's name was Scri-
bonius Prccul'us. Dio's account (lix. 26) is slIghtly different. Proto·
genes, one oi Gaius' favorites, on entering the senate and heing
surrounded hythe fawning senators, pointed to Scribonius and ashed
how that man, hating the emperor'as he did, dared tc approach.
Thereupon the senators iell upon their associate and tore him limb
iromlinrb. '

Paga 58. 2. graphiisque: the ¹(naphtam, also called stilus, was
an irontpencil ground to a sharp point at one end, and fiat at' the other,
lor the purpose ot srnoothing out the wax il it was desired to erase
what had been written. Julius Caesar used his praalum to defend
hinrseli when set upon by the assassins3 see Jttl. 82.

4. membra et artus: the two words, as often, are joined ior the
sake oi enrplrasis; :iteratae are the membersor lirnbs; artas (lit.
‘J'cints ¹), ii distinguished fromaenaa, are the large-Jointed limbs.

7. ἀδιατρεψίανι baresaced intpacleaceg the word also conveys the ’
idea oiohstinacy. > , ,

8. hcc est inverecundiam: agloss. monenti Antoniae„ ,
eta: tahan reproved hy his artat, as thanah it :aare aot atterrat to dis-
obeyher, he addai, “Rerrteraber that Ι raray do all thiana arrd tc all

 

