210 noras on cenninus. [rica rc

by iate to see all that is here. Away! an end both of thy deeds and
thy iiie is at hand! ”

19. quas oh res ouandi ius, eta: 11) nc. For the ovation, see
note on p. 1. 15. ’ , ⁹

20. triumphalia ornamenta: see note on p. 1. 6.
· 21. confestim: te. without waiting lor the ordinary interval oi
two years; cf. note on p. 7. 9.

22. obiit,etc.: Suc. For place oi death, see note on line 14. ¹

23. Scelerata: this adjective in Augustan prose may have the
meaning ‘unfortunate’ or ‘calamitous’

24. municipiorum coloniarumque: both classes of towns had
received ltoman citizenship, so that there was now practically uo
distinction between them except that oi origin. ⁴

PageW. 1. decuriis: prtilds. The plural is used because the
scribes connected with the various offices formed separate guilds; ap.
the siccarat prracstoric, the scribes attached to the quaestore. ad
urbem: to the clip. The body was probably carried by the primores
to the city gata and there received hythe scribes who came out to
meet it (obviis). Dio, lv. 2, says that the body was carried io the
winter quarters oi the Amy oi Germany by the centurione and
tribunes, and then 111 turn by the prominent men oi the different
places along the route to ltoine. He says nothing about the scribes

2. in campo Martio: tc. in the Mausoleum oi Augustus.
honorarium ei tumulum: ie. a cenotaph in Germany. Tacitus,
Arta. itt (17 aa), in speaking oi the Chatti and Germanicus] carn-
paign‚ states that the Chatti had thrown down the sepulchral monnd
lately raised to the Varian legiensem also the old altar oi Drusus.
Germanicus restored the altar, and with his legions performed
manoeuvres in honor ol his father.

4. decurreret: the word means to perform a military manoeuvre
and is often, as here, employed to indicate the military display at
funeral gaules. Dio, lvi. 42, gives a good description (11 such a cere-
mony over the body oi Augustus in the Campus Martius. The cavalry
galloped and the legionaries charged about the pyra, heaping upon
the body, as they passed all the objects that they had received at the
hands oi Augustus for their achievements in war.

6. cum tropaeis: te. adorned with the arms, belmeis, shields,
etc, taken from the foe. Via Appia: see Introd. 11. 52, a ( ).

7ss posterisque eius: in fact, one oi the sons is known only by the
name Germanicus; see below, note on line 31. fuisse autem credi·

„m

 

