184 uorns ou rruunrns. [rien 2:

slight eredenee to the story 01 the famine. He says that Germanico
went to Egypt 1ο view its antiquities, official duties being made th
pretext3 he continues, levavitque opertis horreis pretia Ji'ttorrru rou
tuque t'u carious gruta nauigauit

26. causa mortis: see note on p. 23. 20.

27. quem mox huius, eta: urtd sorite believe thot he, robe
ehorqed tuith the tritae, zoortld liure produced his ortos, but sor th
foci, etc. The following words, eo secreto ostentaret quoe, cannot br
construed, as the text is corruptssaud a lacuna probable. Seemingl
the idea to be expressed is that tho orders were secret and that hi
dared uot divulge them, since 11 he did his own life would be in dange
The common reading is, eu secretu obstarent per quoe, eto. Tacitus
Aua iii. 111, states that he had heard old men say that a documen
had been often seen in Piso’s hands, which his friends asserted to be ι
letter from Tiberius, ordering Piso to oppose Germanicus; that th
intention oi Piso was to lay it before the senate in his own deience
but that he was beguiled by Sejanus' promises.

30. redde Germanicum: Tacitus, Aua ii. 82, gives avivid deseri
tion oi the ieelings 01 the people on hearing oi Germanions' illuess an·
danger.

Pagrae. 2. sinon dominaris, filiola, etc: Tacitus’ versioi
(Anu 11. 52) is: correptamque Graeco uersu udraouuit uon ideo laed
quio uou regnaret. Filiola is a diminutive oi affection, saroasticall
employed.

6. vocare: urielress.

’1. se . . ‚accersh that lie roes being orrurgued. The forn
accerso ior arcesso is archaic. cum praestructum, eta: Tacitus
Area iv. 51, attributes this scheme to Sejanus.

10. ad statuam Augusti, etc: according to Tacitus, Auru. iv
61, she was advised to do this by the hirelings 01 Tiberius, an
although she rejected the advice, she was aeoused 01 having had suc
intentioris.

11. Pandatariam: an island about twenty-five miles south 'o
Latiun1‚aud west 01 Campania. The elder Julia had also been ban
ished to this place.

13. mori inedia destinanti, etc: Tacitus, Anu. vi. 25, suggests
however, that she may have been ioroed to starve herself. Dio, lviii
22, simply remarks that Tiberius was charged with oruelty in th·
matter oi Agrippinas death.

, 16, imputavit: toole credit to hirrrrels.

 

