212 nonas on ohnrcmh. [man 52

as articles oi apparel, —to bind around the meast, the legs either above
or below the hnee, the abdomen, and even the throat. purpurae
ac conchylii: pulpum was deep purple; conchylium, a diluted
purple oi lighter shade formed by mixing water or other dyes with
purpura.

Pago 52. 2. diem Saturnalibus: we have seen (cf. note on p.
4131) that Tiberius entended this festival from one to three days.
Whether the day here mentioned is the fourth or fiith added by
Caligula, is not known, ior Dio, lin. 6, says that Gaius made the time =
fine days.

3. amphitheatro Tauri: see note on p. 5. 24.

4. Saeptis: see note on p: ta. 17. Dio, lix. 10, says that he even
flooded the place and had a ship floated ins

9. multifariam: adverb, in :thoizy places,

11. missilia: these were presents thrown hy the emperor to the
people. Dio, lix. 9, represents him as scattcring tichets and not the
objects themselves, though this was often done: “At gymnastio
gemes he scattered tichets among the people, and gave those who
secured them the oloj'ects the names oi which were written thereon.⁷' Ἴ
obsonio: this was any iood used as a relish with bread, considered
as the main article oi diet. Fish was especially so nsed; sometimes
ituit. .’

12. contra ss: ic. sitting opposite; see Introd. Π. §.5 (2).

13. sedet: utidlilcewz'sc. Ἴ

15. extra ordinem: te. heiore he had held the preliminary offi-
ces: see note on p. 7. 9. circenses: sc. ludos.

17, Africanarum: sc. ,fcrcronn‘ the name was especially applied
to pantheus, though it might signify lions, figens, leoparius, etc, as
well. ³ Troiae decursione: the manoeurre known :ts-Troia, ior
which see note on p. 5. 17. ¹

18. minio: ciuoohol· or red lead3 as a color, ‘orimson' chryso-
colla: bolum as a color, ‘coppo-green)

19. commisit et subitos: sc. luclos; he coco hecco sonae ou ihc
spur os the :tzomeah

20. Gelotiana: sc. 1111111ος supposed, on the testimony oi an in-
scription (diff Gruter, Insc. 598, 1), to have heena home near the cir·
cns, built hy one Gelotius and occupied by some oi Caesar's slaves.

21. Maenianis: licelziouu originally meant balconies built in
tront oi a house that faced a iorum, as places from which to ¹view
the gamos: afterward the word came to mean balconies in general.

 

