160 uerus ou amamus [mes 11

18 ahter quam utpeculio.. .accepta:o therwtset ιιιιιι esde
prout nm ιιιιι, vlit· othern se than to place them he eredrt oi his pecu
ιιιιιιι,’ aa not to receive them as property ιο he held independently
byl rim, ιιιιι with the permission οι Augustus, ior paralium means the
property which a father allows his children, or a master his slaves, to
have as their own, but which technically remains a part οι the lather‘s
or owner's property. The idiom, referre occeptum, is a common eom-
meroial term, meaning ιο enter on the books as received. lu the
clause aliter ottone ιιι referret, referretis an example oi Bennett⁷s
stipulative subjunctive, see note on p. ιι), 8 ; the stipulatiou ιιι this
case, however, is simply a principle οι conduct laid down hy Tiberius
ιοι himself.

21. Agrippa. . . seposito: Suetonius, Any. 65, attributes this
action οι Augustus to the low character aud bad disposition oi Agrippa
Postumus. He was sent first to Surrentum and afterward transported
ιο Planasia. ,

23, delegatus pacandae Germaniae: the task οι subdning Ger-
many was assigned ιο him. status: the use οι status is somevvhat
peculiam ιιι, ‘the conditiou’ or ‘state' οι snbduing Germany. On
Tiberius’ operatmns there, of, Vell. ii. 105 seq, and Dio, lv. 28.

25. ιιι provincia: te. ιιι Germany, procbzcia being used ιο signiiy
Germanicus' sphere οι activity as a general. The provinces oi Ger-
many had not yet been formed. sed nuntiata Illyrici detectione:
dnm. Veli. ii. ιιι] sep, and Dio, lv. 29, give detailed accounts οι the
uprising. Velleius remarks: l The whole οι Pannonia waning insub-
ordinate, as the result ol uninterrupted peace, and Dalmatia, now ιιι
theiu ll maturity οι hert strength, drew into a coniederacy all the
natione οι that re ion, and ιοοι up arms' The real reason oithe
revolt was the harshness οι the Roman rule ιιιι that district

30. quamquam saeprus revocaretur see Iutrod Π. §3, ιιι).

32 ultro: ιι taken with ιιιι the meaning 1s,‘would presume

toharass them’3 ιι with cet ιιιιιιῗιιιιε should they voluntarily retreat. ’
The latter seems preferable.

’ Pege 12. 1. toto Illyrico.. ‚perdomiroz peace had been
made with the Pannonians ιιι 8 ιι), They afterward rebelled aud
were subdued as narrated ιιι the tert.

6. sub id tere tempus: oia, 9 ιιι. Velleius, ii. 117, states that
within five days aiter the termination οι the war in Pannonia and
Dalmatia, the terrihle news oame that Varus had been killed in Ger-
mauy, and that three legions, as many squadrons oi cavalry, and six

 

