162 noras on Titanius [erar 13

so iar as no injury was done by their bad example. He gave warn-
ing frequently, and when he punishetl, it was to correct aud not to
arengo. Heroohamoderateeourse,passmgmuchty concitatam ,
cheehing some ahuses.⁷’

7. quamvis . . . permitteret: see Iutrcd. ΙΙ, ξ 3, h (ὃ),

9. quotiens . . . decideret: see Introd. ΙΙ. ξῧ, b (3).

11. ostento sibi, etc. .· ίνιιειινιᾳ to aa elaea io inhiet lte hod im-
plicit confidente, because a herl r ever failed tis clarescere, toltea they
rcere conductore corripuitque. sio is a dative with the adjective parti-
ciple expertissimo, while o tractoribus is ablat-ive ot agent with the
same3 lit. ‘most periectly tested ior him by his annosiore! This is a
tine example ct a participle used asan adjective and yet retaining
a verhal loree.

13. Bructero: the Bructeri, a tribe oi northwestern Germany, are
mentioned hy Tacitus, tier. 33. They were inveterate ioes oi Rome,
and took part in the deleat oi Varus. ¹

16. quem distulerat: see p. 12. 14 aud note.

20. Batonem: he surrendered to Tiberius aiter aserere war. The
adjective Pannonias is used tc distingunt this martirem Bato, chief
cithessruci. Ι

21. Ravennam: the portet Ravenna, three miles irem the city,
which like modern Venice was built amid tldal legumes, was one oi
the two ehiei naval staticus ot the empire, the other being Misenum.

q We have the testimony ot Tacitus, Arari. i. 58 and ii. 63, ior the fact
that Ravenna was the place ot exile oi the ⁴young sou oi Arminius
(Hermann) and ot Maroboduus. Such persons were probably 'placed
under the charge ci officers oi the treet. Honor was shown the sur-
rendered Bato, hut he was withal a prisoner.

24. congiarium: originally a giit ot cil or wine oi the measure ot
a cocytos, distributed to the people. Atterward, estere, a largess in
money.

25. trecenos nummos: about fifteen dollars ior each person.
nummos: lit. ‘coins¹; is here, as often, equivalent to sestertios.
dedicavit et Concordiae, ete: according to Dic, lvi. 25, the date
wasllrn. “

26. Pollucis et Castoris: this had been dedicated iu the year
fian. hy Tiberius. From the words oi the text, it would appear to
hare heen afterwartl adorned with the spoils ot war. The temple had
been built in 484 rac. in memory oi the assistance giren the Romans
hy Castor and Pollux at the battle oi Lake Regillus, 498 nc. (tradi-
tional chronology). The second restoration was that oi Tiberius in

i
i

 

