rica aa] noras on eunomus. 261
t

tlns duty as a power astra ordinem to the consuls, and Claudius now
apponted two praetors to have ordinary yurisdictron3 cf. Dry. i. 2. 2,
§32 ’
Β. Papiae Poppaeae legis; see note on p. 21. 22.
10. tutores a consulibus darentur: ii there was no tator testa-
* attinentis, or legitimas, according to the terms ot the Atilian laW, the
praetor urbanas (or tribunes) wasto appoint one. The duty was now
assigned, estre ordinem, to the consul. In the time of Marcus Aure-
lius a regular praetor tutelarios was appointed.
16. commeatus a senatu, eta: to give the matteralegal appear-
auce he had this power given him every year by a senatus consultant ,-
Dio, lx, 25.

17. beneficii sui feeit:· Introd. ΙΙ, §2 d.

18. procuratoribus ducenariis: procuratore receiving a salary oi
200,000 sesterces. A fired salary was given the procuratore as well as
the governors of provinces5 cs. Dio, liii. 15, who also clearly explains
the expression in the text by the remark, “procurators were even
named from the sum they received.''

24. Appium Caecum: see Tib. chap. 21.

25. filios iu senatum, etc: cs. Tacitus, Aren. xi. 24, where
Claudius, in a speech in favor oi giving the right ol holding office to
the nobility oi Gallia Comata, says, “For magistracies to be intrusted
tothe children of ireedmen isne innovation, as many are erroneously
persuaded, but a constant practice oi the former Romans.”

26. temporibus Appi et deinceps: from this it would appear

Ι that in the time oi Appius the word libertinus· meant the son oi a

libertas, and was not a synonym ior libertas. n is to he noted, how-
· ever, that such is not the meaning oi the word iu any Roman writings
extant. A liberated slave is tenned libertinas when described in
’ reference to his sccial position, but libertas when spoken ol with
reference to his tormer master.

29. pro stratura viarum: ,ia place of calaritanae for the pavlirp
of reads. This change was made 47 s.n.; cf. Tac. Attia. xi. 22. ⁵

30. detractaque Ostiensi et Gallica provincia: he took from
thern their official duties at Ostia and in Gaul, te. cisalpine Gaul. .
These duties had been assigned them hy Augustus, but they were in
fact the two remaining italien quaestorships, established iu 267 nc.
The duties oi the quaestors oi Ostia were particularly arduous, as this
was the port oi Rome. There seems to be no authority for the state-
ment that the procincta Ostiensis included the duty oi supervising
· the water supply ol Rome. curam aerarii Saturni: cs. Any. 36,

 

