ΡΜ ea] noras ou CALIGULA. 231

27. profugit contionem: profacto with accusative is post-
Augnstan. g ¹

28. deflexa omni acerbitate in senatum: Diona 25, states
that as soon as he reached the city he seriously considered putting the
whole senate to death because they had not decreed divine honors to
him. Seneca, De Iro, iii. 19. 2, also states that Caligula had conceived
the idea oi slanghtering the whole senate.

32. denuntiasset: Dio, lix. 23, relates that Gaius was angry
because Claudius was one oi those appointed to repert to him the
honors conferred hythe senate. As a result, he forbade such honors
conferred in the future. <

Pege 68. 1. amplissimi ordinis: te. oi the senatorial order.

7. ovans: see note on p. 1. 15.

8. natali suo: see note on p. 45. 14.

’9. siquidem: sirice.

10. Antium ι see note on p. 23, 10.

12. in secretis: cratony bis private popei-s.

13. duo libelli, etc: according to Dio, lix. 26, one Protogenes,
abettor oi Gaius in all atrocious acts, used to carry about note-books
having these titles.

16. a claudio demersis: Dio, ln. 4, states that the large quantity
oi p'oison lound .in Gaius* deslr was burned by Claudius, together
with the letters that Gaius had pretended to burn.

19. expallid0: ecceedtaply ραῐιι,Ι apost-Augustan word. cor-
pore enormi: ritissbcpen. Seneca, De Oorzst. Sapientis 18, gives a
description oi Gaius’ appearance: “ He hinrseli was a most ternpting
object oi derision, so ugly was the paleness which proved hinr nrad, so
savage the glare oi the eyes which lurked under his old woman's brou,
so hideons his misshapen head, bald and dotted about with a few
cherished hairs, besides his neck set thick with bristles, his thiu legs,
his nronstrous feet.'’

21. torva: scotolt'ny.

22. hirsutus cetera : the rest os tls body bairy.

23. ex superiore parte : te. so as to look down upon his head.
¹ 24. capram nominare: ie. as reflecting upon his own hairy
person. criminosum: stantunus.

26. componens ad speculum, etc. : standlcy before a ntirvnr ared
proiastra primates calculated to inepti-e horror aad sctyha

28. valetudo ei, etc: be possessed sedbel· α stronp body nor α
souad ntiltd.

 

