214 noras on currenni. [rna aa

13, asticos ludos ι see note on p. 5. 17.

14. Luguduni: ,see note on p. 51. 25. miscellos: sc. ludes,
‘mixed garnes‚’ made up oi various kinds oi contests

17. laudes: ae. speeches in pralse oi them.

20, obiurgari: chiurydre, with the meaning ‘to punish‚' or ¹
‘stulte' is postAugustan.

21. templum Augusti: see Tib. ohap. 47. 16, Dio, lini, says
that Gaius, dressed in a triumphal robe, dedicated the temple ; that
hymns were sung hy heys and giris oi noble birth⁷ and thet a ban-
quet was spread ior the senators and their wives in honor oi the
occasion.

22. aquae ductum: this is the iarncus Claudian aqueduet, hegun
by Caligula, 38 nn, and finished by Claudius, 52 nn„ and is the
most perieetly preserved oi these ancient structures. Pliny, N. H.
xxxvi. 1221 gives a good description ol it. Its length was iorty
Roman miles, and its source at such an elevatior} that its water was
raised to the surnrnits oi all the hills oi the city ; the eost oi the aque-
dnct was about §indiuidua Continuing, Pliny remarks: “li we
take into consideration the abundant supply oi water to the public ior
baths, ponda canals, household purposes‚ garriens, places in the
suburbe, and country houses‚ and then reflect upon the distances that
are traversed‚ the arches that haye been construenti, the mountains
that have been pierced the yelleys that have been filled up, we nrust
oi necessity admit that there is nothing to be found more worthy oi
our admiration throughout the whole universe'’

23. Tiburti: see note on p. 45. 29,

24. Saepta: see note on p. 12. 17. quorum. . . alterum: ae.
theamphitheatre. · ⁴

27. Polycratis: tyrant of Samos. For his marvellous good ior-
tune, cyilierod. iii. 39 seq. He was betrayed and orucified7 522 s.c.‚
by the satrap ol Sardis.

28. Didymeum: a celebrated temple and oraole oi Apollo, so
named irorn the town oi Didyma, in the territory oi Miletus, near
which it stood.

29. Isthmum. . . perfodere: the‘isthmus oi Corinth. Julius
Caesar had conceived this idea (Iul. ll), and Nero, tot]¹ essayed the
tasls (Nero, clap: 19. 1), hut it rernained ior modern engineering ·
skili to accomplish the work.

30. primipilarem: se. centurionem. A centurion oi the primus
pilas or first maniple oi triarii was called a prdaipilua or centurio
primipilaris.

 

