154 ’“ roras on amamus. [ricae

or ior other reasons, the supply oiten rau very low (cs. artior in the
tert) and this caused the goverument extreme arixiety.

22. repurgandorum . . . ergastulorum:theat-pastrrlawereprisons
ior slaves who were punished by being made to vvorlr in chains in the
fieids. Augustus, as stated by Suetonius, Any. 33, had ordered these
ergastula inspected. Tiberius, as here indicated, made a more rigorous
investigation. The crpostaia were done an'ay with entirely by
Hadrian. ⁴

23. quasi: on usage, see Introd. Π. §3, b (4).

25. sacramenti metus: tc. iear oi being pressed into military
service.

26. expeditione Cantabrica: tc. in one oi the two campaigns
which Augustus conducted in person. The otherwas the campaign iu
Dalmatia ς cs. day. 20. The Cantabri, awild race oi highlanders oi
northern Spain, made repeated raids upon rhetores subject to Rome.
Augustus, in 25 rac, conducted in person the campaign referred to
111 the tert. They were thoroughly subdued hy Agrippa, 19 ac.

27. ducto adorientem exercitu: Velleius, ii. aa, states that
Tiberius conduct was characterized hythe display oi every virtue
in his management oi affairs iu the east; that he subdued Armenia
and gave the throne to Artavasdes. According to Tacitus, Tigranes
was first put upon the throne ς afterwards, Artavasdes. Armenia had
been reduced to the position ot a kingdom dependent upon Rome, by
Antony's victory over Artabazes 34 uc. In 20 nc. Artaxias, the
king, was murdered. Augustus, in the Mea. Arteyraaam, chap. ai,
says that he might then have made it a province, but preferred to
establish Tigranes upon the throne. This he did at the request ot
the iaetiou which had killed Artaxias. At the time, Tigranes was
living in erile at Rome.

28. pro tribunali: on the force oi pro, see note ou p. 5. 13,

29. recepit et signa: in Auo. 21, the recovery, which was
effected by compromise, is attributed to Augustus. Tiberius was but
his general and representative. These were the standards lost by
Crassus, the triumvir, near Carrhae, 53 uc. Dio, xl. 1630, gives
a detailed account oi the disaster. ι

30. Comatam Galliam: iu Cicero's time, all transalpiue Gaul
was so called (from the retention oi the custorn ot wearing the hair
long) to distinguish it irom the Romanized cisalpine province (Gallia

⁴ Togata). Later the name was used to signiiy Gallio Beryton, Layda·
aeasis, and Aqrritoaia, as opposed to Gallia Narbonensis, anciently
called Gallio Bracata (wearing trousers), ’

 

