rma reo] noras ou nuno. 301

32. neque 111 divexanda quicquam pensi habuit: he enode
ao scrttplos os trawytay his mother. pensi: predicate genitive oi
quality. 111 the present context this seems better than to call pensi
a partitive genitive.

- Paga 126. 4. perdere statuit: xiphilin, lxi. 12, says that it was
· , asserted on good authority, that Seneca was the prime mover in this
crime. Tacitus, Ana. xiv. 7, stmply states that aiter her death Nero
summoned Seneca and Burrus, either as his confederates or to test
their ieelings on what he had done without their knowledge. ter
veneno temptasset: Tacitus, Ana xiv. 3, says nothing about these
three attempts. He states that Nero first decided upon poison, but
did not dare try it at his own table, having already poisoned Britan-
nicus in that way. Furthermorc, it would be [langerous to employ
others, since Agrippina would be aptio deteot the attempt.

6. laxata machina: on looseaiay thamnathaeam, ablativeabso-
lute.

. 7. solutilem navem: Tacitus, Arta. xiv. 3, states that Anicetus,
’ admiral oi the fleet at lliisenum, was 'the inventor oi niis scheme.
According to Xiphilin‚ however, lxi. ia, this ship was suggested by a
similar contrivance which N ero and Seneca had seen in the theatre. ’

8. camarae ruina: ha the scit os the cotta.

10. ad sollemnia Quinquatruum: the Quinquatrus was eele-
brated in honor oi Minerva, during five days 111 March 3 cs. Tac. Arare.
xiv. 4.

131 convivium: Xiphilin, lxi. 13, probably by mistake, says that
this entertaiument took place at Bauli, a small place between the guli
oi Baiae and Cape Misenum. According to Suetonius it took place
at Baiae, whence Agrippina sailed in the treacherous ship to Bauli.
Tacitus, Aon. xiv. 4, says that coming irom Antium she was met by
Nero, and conducted to Bauli. Her suspicitms aroused, she travelled
hy sedan cbair to Baiae, where the banquet took place. This does
not contradict Suetonius. inlocum. . . illud: the ‘galley in

, which she had come had been wrecked purposely. Iu place of that

(tn tocum),tue above-mentioned (illaad, sc. raootyt'am) rtoois saltatlis

2 was given her.

17. diversa omnia: te. from what he had expected. nando-
, que evasisse : she-first swam and then was pichcd up by a skiff and
taken to her villa3 cf. Tac. Aua xiv. 5. L. Agerinum, eto:
, Tacitus' account (Auta. xiv. 7) ol this theatrical coap ot Nero‘s tallies
. with that ot Suetonius.

 

