noras.

· rmnnms (rear ana.

Principal sources: Tacitus, Anatole, i.-vi.; Suetonius; Dio Cassius,
lvii, lviii. ; Velleius Paterculus, ii. raa-131.
Tiberius was the heir oi Augustus, but the latter did not have the
right to bequeath his power as princeps. The ex-Ernpress Livias,
because oi her native ability and her exalted position (she had been
adopted by Augustus iu his will, and had received the name Julia and
the title Augusta), had a large following ot devoted friends. German-
icus, more closely related to Augustus than Tiberius and dearly loved
by his soldiers, might have been a dangerous rival had he so willed. Ἴ
These facts made Tiberius cautious, and only gradually did he assume
complete control ot the government. The death oi Germanicus in
the East, removing, as it did, a possible rival, was generally attributed
to poison administered by Piso at the instigation ot Tiberius. Oi this,
however, there is absolutely no proci. Early ln the reign, the election
ot magistrates passed from the comitia to the senate. This body
Tiberius treated with studied respect. Many ol its members, however,
he viewed with suspicion, and a wider applieation was given to the
law ot treason, resulting in the growth ot an intamous class oi pro-
fessional informers. Oi great significance was the conoentration in
a permanent camp at Rome ot the praetoriae cohorts. Their corn-
mander, Sejanus, became the most powertul official under the emperor.
On the iall ol Sejanus, Macro succeeded as praesecans practorio. The
prolonged absence oi Tiberius from Rome resulted in making his .
representative in the city (the praefectus urbi) a permanent official.
Tacitus, Suetonius, and Dio Cassius agree in picturing Tiberius as
a man ol gloom and suspicion, who finally degenerated into a blood-
thirsty tyrant. Velleius, who treats ot the period· before Tiberius’l
accession and the early years ol his principate, writes in a style so
laudatory that he excites suspicion as to his sincerity. Tacitus is
unjust, in that he attributes to Tiberius those motives that best
support his own theory, which was that Tiberius was a hypocrite dur-
'ing all his earlier years, and only in the latter portion of his life
showed his true colors. ‚All three note a change icr the worse in ⁸
143

 

