248 norns on etnunrus. [rien 83

Pege 83. 1. per taedium ac dissensionem diversa censen-
tium: nisyzzsten with tbc dissensibus of tlte different sections ; nense
of hendindys. ,

5. quina dena sestertia: about erto. From this time it became
ncustorn ior the emperor, on his accession, to bestow n largess upon
the praetorians who played such en important rble iu choosing the
prnzceps.

7. antiquius: more important.

11. praestitit: narni-annet.

12. paucis interemptis: Dio, lx. 3, states tbnt he put Chaerea to
death ns having established a bad precedent in killing nn emperor, end
as though he had caught him plotting against himself. He mede no
pretence oi nvenging Geius. Others, who had desired the reestablish-
ment oi the republie, or who even had desigus upon the principare, he
not only tergere, hut nrlvnnced to positions in the state.

14. officia pietatis: te. his obligations to his relatives. For pietas,
see note on p. 42. 12.

15. iusiurandum . . . per Augustum: tneontnnincnteneenen
ntost bz'ndiny, and witich lte neostsreqnentlp nsctl, tuns ‘ Bp Anpnsins i ’

16. Liviae divinos honores: forbidden by Tiberius, see Tib.
chnp. 516.

17. Augustino similem: “A first brsss oi Augustus, coiued in
puisunnce ot a decree ol the senate niter his death, represents him
seated upon the thensa oi consecration, drawn by iour elephante, on
ench oi which sits n driven' (Steveuson, Hist. cs Roman deins, p.
358). q

19. patri: Drusus. matri: Antonin minor.

20. carpentum: seeuote on p. 49. 32. cognomen Augustae:
Augustus, in his will, hed ordered her to take the title3 Any. 101.

21. fratris: Germanicus.

23. Neapolitano certamine: these were the quinquenninl gemes
instituted in honor ot Augustus. Any. 98, iernen ct quinquennale
certarnen pynnn'cnrn nonan· sno institutum, perspectent (Artyrtstns).
Strabo, v. 4. 7, states thnt the Neapolitnus celebrated these gemes
every five years, thnt they consisted oi contests in music'nnd gym-
nastic exercises tasting many days, and that in fnc't they rivalled the
most inmens gemes oi Grecos. Dio, lx. 6, speaks in the highest terms
of Claudius' conduct while staying nt anles He tras unsssuming,
J'ust, and moderate in his expenditures. '

24. Marcum quidem Antonium: the triumvir, the father of
Antonin minor, mother oi Claudius.

 

