-rnen ve] , noras ou annuorus. 243

6. sin autem ἠλαττῶσθαι sentimus 2' bat ts ae peractae that be be
acattte'ap aad defectiva ia respect to physieat atad attentat praeerat.

9. τὰ τοιαῦτα σκώπτειν, etc: εἰωθόσιν is a perfect participle agreeing
with aoettnraes; ‘who are accustcmed to nrock and sneer at such
deseces! Ἴ

10. de singulis articulis temporum: oa each occasion as a pre-
seats itseis.

11. μὴ προϋποκειμένου, eta: a genitive absolute, ts a be aot de-
otded bafer-abanet whether or etot ta oar opinion be can hold office.
Note how Augustus interlards his letters with Greek words and
phrases, a practice common at that tinre and in the following age 3 cf.
the letters ot Cicero and Pliny.

13. curare. . . triclinium: te. to superintend the secred ban-
quet. Such feasts were given in connection with various religious

„observances and were noted lor their magnificence. The officials
having charge oi thern were styled eptaloae‘s.

Ἴ 14. ab Silani filio: probably Lucius Silanus, betrothed to Clau-
..dius’ daughter. Appius, the father, was putto death by Claudius5 see
Olaad. chap. 29. (i.

16. ex pulvinari: the impertal bo‘x in the circus; its locationis
not known. αϊ, Aap. 45, spectabat intendant ea palataurt etquidem
orata coeterae aa liberis sederas. It may have been situated on the
podiatae, a position which would be well indicated by the words, in
Jhoate petrae spectaculorum, i. e. in the very frent part of that portion
oi the circus used torseating the spectators. On the meaning oi specta-
cnte, see note on p. 61. 4. For another part of the circus frequented
by the emperor, see note on p. na. 22. Ἴ

19. aut esse Romae Latinarum diebus: Augustus thinks it
'inappropriate that Claudius romain at Rome and yet not be appointed
prefect. By prefect, we are not to understand the imperial prefect ot
the city, but the old republican officer who, even in the time oi the
empire, was appointed during the Latin festival when the magistrates
proceeded in a body to the temple of Jupiter Latiaris on the Alonn
mount to citer sacrifice. For the feriae Latinae, see note on p.
54. 17.

“ 25. alteris litteris: ta a secoevd letter. The word litterae signifies
‘epistle,' unless accompanied by the distributive numeral adjective, in
which case it means ‘eptsnesff Sometimes the context may show
that the plural is meant, even when the distributive adjective is not
employed
“ 27. stupacio: nototnereaseanown.

 

