204 · nouus on ominum. [Prae 45

28. abusumque audentius mendacio: oriri thot he vias eanbald-
ehad to stote thtssolsehood.

29. Tiburi: modern Tivoli, atown sixteen miles-northeast oi
Rome, oue oi the most ancient oi Latium The temple oi Hercules,
situated here, wasone oi the largest structuras outside oi Rome. In
elassioal times Tibur was noted lor its fine country homes. Horace
possessed a seat near by, and in its neighborhood was situated
Hadrian's magnificent villa.

30. et ipse: lte too ,⁴ a torm ot expression found in Livy, hut not
used hy Cicero. ’

31. supra diximus: ohap. 7. Plinium arguit, aa: Pliny ts
refutent by chronoloyioal consideratione.

Paga 46. 4. adiuverit: potential.

5. filias: Drusilla and Agrippina.

6. quod antiqui etiam, eta: cy. Prisoian vi. 8. 41, ‘poenaliora'
onitu, femininum ‘potero’ dicebaut stiztiqatssitttt', aride et ‘puayiero'
(licitur, quoe puerum ool puerum parit.

8. ante . . ‚quam obiret: Introd. 11.§3‚ b( ).

11. ut ducerent, eta: I Μαάθ urronyomeuts aestatim] with Tolo-
νίας olid Asillius to tote tho hey with theut.

16. non potuisse ibi nasci: thot tho‘plouo to toht'ch he tuos ulter·
toarci brouyht flora Rome, athen torota two years old, could not liooo
been his birtltyloca ,

18. fidem . . . elevant: (leotroy belief itt.

20. instrumenti: ‹lotoment; ie. the octo mentioned above.

21. loeis atque secessibus: lreudiatlys, ‘places oi retreat'

25Δ Caligulae cognomen:¹ the torm ooltyolo is the diminutive oi
the word caligo, a heavy military 'boot studded with nails, lt may be
rendered ‘little boota' αἱ. Tau. ilua. i. 41, also Dio, lvii. 5, “They
called him Caligula beoause he had, lor the most part, heen brought
up in oamp, and was acaustomed to wear the soldier's hoot instead
oi that used by civiliaus,'’ manipulario habitu: lo the dress of
o common soldier. llooioulortus equivalent to otouz'yulort's is post-
Augustan. .

27. perhanc . . . consuetudinem: by beloy thos brooyht up os
one os theut.
= 30, tumultuantis: see Tib. ohap. 25, 26. in tutorem usque
praecipites: oottt'etl ytrite away hy their uzoclness.

31. conspectu suo: suo has the torae oi the objectiva genitive
sua

 

