298 nores on nuno. v [Pras 122

Maraces ariol coartare adorned arith ornaments aa tlte arrrrs aad
breast.

29. canusinatis: Canusium, in Apulia, was famous ior its fine
wool. '

30⁴ Mazacum: the Maraces, atribe ol Mauretania, noted ior their
shill in horsemanship and their fine steeds.

31. damnosior : sarrarularlap naara money.

Pago 123. 1. Esquilias usque: equivalent to asarta aa Esquilias ,·
as. note on p. 11, 8.

2Δ transitoriam: tte rarae os passaran, te. as connecting the
Palatine with the Esquiline. Before the fire, the aonias transitoria
was probably nothing but a long corridor carried over the streete
and connecting the Palatine and Esquiline hills; af. Tac. Arra ⁸
xasa

'4. suiiecerit: potential subjunctive3 but af. Appaadla to Bennett‘s
Lat. Graia. 360, a.

5. colossus: Pliny, N. H. xxxiv. 45, states that this was the work
oiZenodorus. v

6. porticus triplices miliarias: the simplest ionn oi the portico ‘
or porch would be one row oi columns, the rooi resting upon these and
upon the outer wall oi the building. The portico here mentioned, pre-
sumably surrouuding the palaea, was a Roman mile in circumierenee
and had three rows oi columns. Each aisle would somewhat resemble
a simple portiao; hence the plural partious, ⁵

7. maris instar: libeasaa.

8. ad urbium speciem: presentiap the appearance of atrias.
rura insuper, arvis, ata: strantes of corortrp too„ ia rba different
asperas of tilledjtelds alraaaarvts, pastore, arzcl forest land. The arohi-
tects and landscape gardeners who hed the genius to aecomplish this
work were named Severus and Celer ; cf. Tac„ Arra. xv. la ¹ ⁴

11. unionum conchis: another ospearl.

12. tabulis: these were the paneis proper oi the laquear or iretted
ceiling. ut flores, eto. .· the first nt clause gives the purpose oi oer-
satdibas, the second that oi fistulatas.

14. cenationum: partitive genitive depending upon the adjective
praecipua. rotunda: predicate adjective3 ‘the main dining room
wasmont)

16. albulis aquis: le. with water brought irom the Sulpliur
Springs (Albulae aquae) near Tibur. Ι

19. piscinam a Miseno, aa: a brrttr'ap pool eatenatap frona.

 

