PAGE 93] noras on cnnunrus. 263

9. Chaucis: this tribe dwelt on the coast between the Eme and
the Elbe.

11. equestris militias ita ordinavit: ιιι ιιιιιι ιιιιιιιιιιιι ιιι ιιι-
ιιιιιιιιιιιιιιι of ιιιιιι of ιιιιιιιιιιιι ιιιιιΙι wito ιιιιι sarteq ιιι ιιιι ιιι-ιιι,
Ιιι tire first century oi the empire a fixe'd equestrian ιιιιιιιι ιιιιιιιιιιιι
was develeped, at tlre bottonr ιι which were the ιιιιιι ιιιιιι ιι ιιιιι ιιι, ιιι-
cludit„ the ιιιιιιιι ιιιιιιιιι ιιι, ιιιιι ιιιιιιιιιιι ιιιιιι lapion is, ιιιιιιιι ιιι ιι ιιι
ιιιιιι rttsvz'itay ιιι nor ιιιι ιιι ιι praetoriae, the praefectura ιιιι, and the
ιιιιιιιιι ιιιιι cast ι·“ιιι ιιιιι.

12. stipendiaque mstrturt ιι. l ιιι ιιιῖιιιι ιιιιι ιι ιιιιιιι of fictitieas
ιιιιιιι, ιιιιιιιιιι ι”ιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιι ι, titire tleos ιιιιιιιι could ιιι ιιιιιιιιιι ιιιιιι-
ιιιι ιιι ιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιι of ιιιιιιιιι service. Stipcrnlia ιι ιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιι ιιιιιι-
tiae ιιιιιιι is taken as a case oi hendiadys.

17. libertinos. . . publicavit: Ιιι ιιιιιιιιιιιιι tlte property of
freedrnca, ιιι. se . . . agerent: see note on p. 9. ll end.

18. ingratos et de quibus, ιιι.; incitus, Aac. xiii. at and 27,
gives iiie arguments on toth sides in the discussiones this question,
’ aud states that Claudius allowed ιιι general legislation against tire abiise,
but directed that each case be considered by itseli. Dio, lx. 13, states
that Claudius was exceedingly lrarsh in his treatment οι ungrateiul
freedrnen,putt1ng many to death and giving the patrone power to
punish others.

19 advocatisque eorum negavit: ιιιι adhc ιιιιι ιιι ιιι ιιιιιιι of
their advocates, ιιιιιιι, ιιι.

21. insulam Aesculapii: Livy, ιι 5, tells tlreiradrtron oi the ior
metron oi this island. It received its name ironr the tenrple oi Aescula-
pius, built upon it iu 291 nc. One end oi the island was fashioned to
, represent the prow oi a ship, to perpetuate the mernory of the ship in
· which Aesculapius, ιιι the iorrn oi a serpent, was believed to have been
¹ broughtto the spot. This is now no longer an island, iorthe smaller
charmel oi the river has been recently filled in.

24. quem: carry over the force ei the stiram ιι qais.

25. viatores: see noeonp2 17. nisiautpedibus, etc: asa
mark oi respect ιο the towns. lt' rs to he remembered, too, that tire
streets were very narrow

30. dumtaxat gentrlrcra ιιι ιιιιιιιι ιιιιιιιι asper ιιι.

31. in campo Esquilino: the usual piace ior executione, outside
’ the ιιιιιιι Esquilina and inside the present Ριιιιι Μιιιιιιιι.

32. ed curam-suam: ιι. he had made thern imperial provinces,'
¹ l5n.n.; cfiTae. Ᾰιιιι. ι. 76. Ιι was considered an advantage iera
province to be transferred to the imperial class. ,

 

