mea aa] noras on rmuarus. ’ 191

52 suspectum haberet: note the predicate use oi the partieIple
with habere ,¹ lit. ‘he had Gaius suspected.¹ From this it is but astep
to the nse ot habere as an auxiliary verb. This Gaius was afterward
the emperor Caligula. ex adulterio : between Livilla and SeJ'anus,

10. praetrepidus: apost-Augustan intensified torm ot trepidas.
contumeliis obnoxius: exposed to insert.

13, disicere: srnrpress.

14, Praenestinarum sortium: os tlte oracta of Praeneste. At
Praeneste, the modern Palestrina, there was a temple oi Fortuna
Prtnrtpeata, or firstborn daughter oi Jove, withan oracleoiten men-
tioned under the name Praenestinae sortes. The origin oi the oracle
in the finding oi the sortes is told by Cicero, de Diali. 41. These
sortes were tablets oi oali with letters oarred upon them. Oi sortes in
general, Cicero remarks: ‘⁴ What, then, is a lot? Much the same as
the game oi mora or dice, and other gemes ol chance in which luclr
and fortune are everything, and reason and skill are notlring.'' He
goes cn to say that all that kept the Praenestinae sortes from falling
into contempt was the beauty and antiquity ci the temple thera

16. unum et alterum: these two cases are mentioned by Tacitus,
Ana. vi. 27; the officials were Aelius Lamia and Arruntius. Else-
where (Ann. i. 80) he makes the general statement: ‘⁴ He finally
became s'c undeeided that he assigned provinces to some whom he
was never to send from the city.”

18. donec: the use ci this conjunction with the subjunctive to
denote an actual fact is common in posthugustan Latin. The usage
began with Livy, See Introd. Π. ξ 6, s.

21. exsequenda curarent: narare iollowed by the gerundive is
equivalent to the EngHsh idiom, ‘to have a thing done! nurum ac
nepotes : Agrippina, =Nero, and Drusus.

’ 22. obsutaque lectica ε te. the curtains oi the lectica were sewed
together that these within might not be seen.

23. loco movit: transferred: te. honr one place to another3 tato
is ablativo oi separation.

25. quamvis. . . videret: Intron.11.§3‚t(5). Of. Dic, lviii.
2, “For the number oi statues which the senate, knights, tribes, and
influenti-al men created in his honor, surpasses all calculation.'⁷

29. ut a se, eta: Sejanus' presence as consul would he required at
Rome. collegam sibi adsumpsit: Dio's statement (lviii. 4) is the
same. After Tiberius heard that Sejanus had won the lavor oi the
most powerfnl and influentia} men oi the state, and was conceahng
hisaetions, he thus attached him, as indicated in the text.

 

