manaa] noras or rinharos. tva

24. utriusque ordinis ciac isena orral and eques rran rank
25 quo mmus m opera scaenae etc. hot thoy ottJh the

proven ec byt he derlee of tho seno fron apparo tJtn mrthcoeno
cod oo the stopo. Such a decree was passed' ln the reign oi Au-

gustus, 22 ue. The most definite reference to it rs found 1n Dio,
liv. 2. ι ’

27. famosi iudicii notam: te. they allowed themselves to be de-
prived by the consors, or hy the emperor as praefectus tantam, oi their
senatorial or equestriau rank.

29. latum clavum : the broad purple stripe ot the senator, on the
breast oi his tooteo ,⁴ cs. the crtpostos clavos oi the equestrians.

30. Kal. 1ul.: the Roman moving day; cs. Mart. Epiq. xii. 32.
After that date rent s twould nothe held so hi rh. ³

32 pridie sortitionem: oatl tedop before he costlot s.Probably
ou the day before he drew his province by lot. ll hy he divorced her
is a matter oi conjecture.

Page 22. 1. Aegyptios Iudaicosque ritus compescuit: Tacitus,
Aac. ii. 85 (19 aa), is not much more explicit. He states, however,
that four thousand freedmerlwere expelled to Sardinia, charged with
being disciples oi these cults. ι From J osephus, Aret. Jod. xviii. 3, 4, we
learn the circumstances, The temple oi Isis was destroyed and its
priests were crucified by Tiberius, because of an outrage perpetrated
bya Roman hnrght upon a womanoi rank ru this temple with the
assrs anae otthe priests The Jews were punished because four oi
that sect had persuaded one oi their proselyt es, a nobe Roman lady,
to send as gitts to the temple ot Jerusalem sums, which they had
stolen. In general, it may be said that the Romans were very tolerant
toward foreign oults. They were aggressively hostile only toward
those¹ creeds which, like the Christian and Jewish, were oi a proselyt
ing tendenoy and hostile to the state religion, or toward those which,
like Druidism, iostered national sentiments detrimental to Roman
dominion.

5. sacramenti: te. under pretence oi eulisting them ior'military
service.

6. caeli: elimate. similia sectantes: te. proselytes.

li. a grassaturis, eta: from proptiae robbers aad lotoless coo·
spirators. See Introd. II. ᾖ 1, d. grassaturis ac latrociniis: a
case of, hendiadys. ’

15. quibus praetorianae cohortes, eta: both Dio, lvii. 19, and
Tacitus attribute this innovatiou to Sejanus. Suetonius, Aop. 49

 

