144 noras on meruius. [esea 1

'Tiberius' character aiter the discovery oi Sejanus' treachery* Th·
provincial writers Strabo, Philo, and Josephus speak in tenus ol
gratitude ci'Tiberius' rule.

In early liic, 'liberius proved himself a genera-l oi marked ability.
As emperor, he displayed wisdom in the administration oi the finance
oi the state, aad aimed to secure good government, particularly in th.
provinces. Alter his death senatorial writings misrepresented his eon
driot as a ruler. His natural sternness and moroseness made hin
unpcpular, and this unpopularity resulted in a gross exaggeration‚ οι
the part of the peoole, oi his licentiousness and cruelty. These vices

however, he did possess, aud they became more marked as he gre r
older and more timid.

Pago 1. 6. Regillis: the exact location oi Regilli is unknown.

8. clientium : Livy, ii. lb. 4, uses this word inthe same connection
Clicutclo seems to have existed among the Sabinos and Etruscans
and was an institution perhaps universal in ancient Italy. The worn
is probably not used technically here, but merely designates a famil·
aud its dependente

9. Tito Tatio: king of the Sabines3 cf. Livy, i. 13. 4.

10. Atta Claudio: Livy, ii. 16. 4, gives his name as Attius Clausu-
and states that he was known ab Rome as Appius Claudius. ·

11. sexto iere anno: 504 nc. (traditional chronology). co
optata z cooptare is used to signiiy the act oi a body electing its> ow
members. lt is here technicahy used oi the aot ot the convitia crerint
inadmitting aioreign elan into a patriciali gens. When a plebeiai
was so admitted, the act was called allecto, not cooptotz'o; cs. nero
κ chap. 1. 16,

12. locumque sibi, .. accepit: a special privilege grante-
distinguished men¹ since interment and cremation within the avaliso
¹ the city were afterward forbidden by astatnte of the Twelve Tables
x., bonitiacos artortnona in rerba ne sepelite viere atrito.

’ 15. ovationes: the ovation was granted generals who⁷ while the
had distinguished themselves, had not done so in such a marke-
degree as to warrant the granting ct a triumph. The general entere
the city on iooi <not ln the chariot) and clad inthe tepor procreat
(not the topc picto), often unaccompanied by his troops, The cere
monies termineted with the sacrifice oi a sheep (hence Qash), instea·
oi a bull as in the ease oi a triumph. s

, 17. consensu: by. coarianos consent, The Ciceronian expressio
is caravriam consensu.

 

