302 , noras ou nano. [raas aa

20. ut percussorem sibi subornatum: oa the ereaod thot he
hod heea instituted hy Aarapptaa to assasstoece him.

21, quasi . . . vitasset: to altahe a seem thot she had avoided the
ceaseqaeaees os the deed ia which she hod been detected hy eoraotttttaq
suicide.

22. adduntur his, eta: according to Tacitus, Aah. xiv. 9, some
affirmed these rnmors, while others denied them. Xiphflin, lxi. 14,
asserts that Nero did view the eorpse, examine the wounds, andfinally
remark, “ 1 did not know that I had suoh a beautiful mother. ’⁷

26. quamquam et militum . . . confirmaretur: Burrus was
the one who took the initiative and had the soldiers congratulata
Nero on his escape; Tae. Aah. xiv. 103 Introd. Π. § 3, h (5).

28. saepe confessus, eta: the pangs oi a guilty conscience eom-
pelled him to leave the scene oi the murder 3 ef. Tae. Artaxia 10.

30. Magos: the magians were learned men and magieians among
the Persians.

32. etEleusinie saeris: see note capot. 17. Fortheioreeoi et, '
see Introd. Π. §d d. ’ ’

Pago 127. 3. amitae: aunt oi Nero and sister oi DomitiaLepida,
mentioned above, Nero, ehap. 7. 25.

6. simul hane excepero: as sooa os I shall haee received this,·
assoon as she should have seen Nero shave ior the first time and offer
up his heard3 es. Nero, chap. 12. 16.

8. positurum z equivalent to depositarum.

11. Poppaeam Sabinam: was the daughter oi T. Ollius, but had
assumed the name oi her grandfather Poppaeus Sabinus, consul in
han. She was awoman oi great beauty but oi lo'ose morale. She
was first married to Rufus Crispinus and aiterward to· Otho, who was
one oi Neres ohums. On Nero's beeoming enamoured oi her, he sent
Otho away to the province oi Lusitania, and took Poppaea himself.

13. Statiliam Messalinam: granddanghter oi Statilius Taurus,
consul in 11 au. She was Nero’s third wile, and is not to he eon-.
iused with Valeria Messalina, third wile oi Claudius.

15. in honore ipso: whilestz'll ia office.

18. uxoria ornamenta: te. she should be content with the mere
title oi wiie3 apuu on trimapholta oraoraeate, etc.

21. relegavit: she was sent first to Campania; aiter· her recall, at
the request oi the pe'ople, she was again hanished, this time to the
island oi Pandateria.

22. in quaestione: acheo questioned ander tortere. ·

 

