306 noras ou unao. [rma 130

43, Nero had the debrisremcved to help along the work ct rehuilding the
Ι city. The fact is mentioned in connection with the colonnades which
Nero ordered constructed athis own expense ; see Nero, chap. 16. 29.

20. collationibus: exactetl on the pretence cf repairing the losses
caused hy fire. Even the gods were compelled to submitto this treats⁴
ment and their teniples pillaged ; of. Tacitus, Ana. xv. 45.

23. pestilentia: in connection with this, Tacitus, Arta. xvi. 31
(65 aa), mentions violent hurrioanes, which destroyed iarmhouses,
orclrards, and crops throughout Campania.

25. in rationem Libitinae, etc: torre entered ca the mortuary
recorda In the temple of Venus Libitina, regarded as the goddess ol
death, everything requisite for burials was kept, and had to be bought
or horrowed from it. According tc an old ordinance, a piece oi
money was deposited in the ¹temple ior every person who died in
Rome. clades Britannica: 61 an. 3 see Tac. Ana. xiv. 29 seq,
where a detailcd account oi the uprising is given. Xiphilin assigns
as the cause cl the uprislng the severity cf the confiscations resulting
from the calling in oi large sums lent the Britcns by' Claudius and*
Seneca. Tacitus gives as the cause the tyranny and severity oi the
Roman forces. , ’

26. duo oppida: Camaludunum, the modern Colchester, and
Verulamium. Londinium was also destroyed, having been abandoned
by Suetonius Paulinus, the Roman general, in order tc save the oth'er
places.

27. ignominia· ad Orientem: particularly in the contests against
Vologeses, king oi the Parthians, 62 an. ; cf. Tac. Aac. xvh seq.

. 28. subiugum missis: Tacitus, Arra. xv. 15, mentions this asa
mere rumor,

30. tuerit: for construction, see note on p. 123, 4..

Page 231, 1. exstitisse: showedltiarsett.

3. Νέρων Ορέστης, era: Nero, Orestes, aad Alcmaeon, ull three
stem iterraorters. For Orestes, see note on p. 117, 31. Alcmaeon,
at the hidding oi his father, slew his mother, Eriphyle,

4. Νεόνυμψον Νέρων, etc: Nero star his crea mother aad she but
aewly roed. Νεὸνυμφον agrees with μητέρα and refers tc the rumcrs ci
Nero’s incestuous intercourse with Agrippina.

6. sustulit: a play upon two meanings ol tollo, ‘to carry' and
‘to kiltj Render, ‘carried offa, For the account oi Aeneas carrying
his father from burning Troy, see Aea. ii. 707 seq.

7, nosterr aaNerc. ¹ oomua: bow.

 

