310   noras on nano. [rma 135

3. aurum ad obrussam: lit. ‘gold subiected to the test'; ie.
‘pure’

4. delatoribus, etc. : that he onpht rather to aaa Jiont the in-
former-s all the boccatics which they hod been paid,· cf. Nero, chap.
3213.

6. lucranti: sc. Neroni. Nero enriched himself in some way by
taking advantage oi the high price ot grain. Lucrantc' is the conjec-
ture oi Oudendorp, ior the meaningless lucrantia oi the manuscripts.

8. pulverem: by this is meant the fine sand from the Nile, used

'to sprinkle over the arena and on the bodies oi the athletes when
slippery with perspiration and oil.

11. cirrus appositus est, etc. : cacis acero placed epea thc croton.

12. nuuc demum agona esse, etc: now there was indeed a con-
tesa- let him at length pire it ap. Give up what? Possibly the
cirrus as a sign oi effeminacy3 possibly the struggle to retain the
throne. Υ

13. alterius collo ascopera deligata: o sach roas attached to tho
acca os another. Ascopcra is the conjecture oi Politian ior the cor-
rupt ascopa. This is the only instance nithe dative with deligare,
the ordinary construction being od with the accusative Howard,
Harrard Studiosis Classical Phil. Vol. Vll, p. 208, conjectures dordr
praeligatus. ’

14. ego quid potui: conldI help tt? supposed to be the words
oi Nero, and answered by the people, scd ta calleant nternz'stc', ‘well
you have‘cleserved death by the sach,' referring to the death meted
out to parricides‚ ior which see note on p. 98. 25.

15. Gallos: a pun on the word pallus, ‘a cock,' and Gallus, ‘a
Gant’ Note also that the word cono, and presumably its frequenta-
tive, canto, means ‘to erow’ as well as ‘to sing’

17. Vindicem: another pun; Vindex, the rebel¹ a proper name,
and vindex, a legal term meaning ‘defendes' ,

18. somniorum: Suetonius was himself abeliever in dreams; cf.
Pliny, Epist. l. 18. ‚

21. navem sibi, otc. :⁴ the holm arostecytoa hinc as hc noas steor-
c‘npaship. .

24. Ι a simulacris gentium, ctc. : by the statues representing diiier-
ent nations which had been erected around the theatre oi Pompey.
Pliny, N. Η. xxxvi. 41, informs us that there were fourteen oi these
statues.

26. astruconem: asmalisized horse, so called from Asturia, a
district of Spain. Pliny, N. H. viii. 166, in adifficult passage, gives

 

