rica 23] noras on rrannrus. 175

Paga 23. 4. extractos ad ee: indcced to visit him.

5. Maroboduum: hc was brought up at Rome. After becoming
leader ol the Marcomanni, he established a poweriul kingdom. He
spent the last eighteen years of his life iu exile at Ravenna, dying in
351.n.; cf. Tac. Ana. ii. 62-633 Vell. ii. 108. Rhascupolim:
Augustus 'had divided Thrace between Rhascupolis and his nephew,

·Cctys. The latter was killed hy his uncle in the early part oi the
reign oi Tiberius. Rhascupolis was finally banished to Alexandria
and put to death, 18 nn. llis history is given quite fully by Tacitus,
Ana. n. 64-67. Archelaum: the king to whom Cappadocia was
given by Mark Antony, 36 n.c.; cf. Tac. Aac. ii. 42.

10. Antio: Antinnr,mode1n Annio, atowu oi Latium, twenty-eight
miles from Rome. The place was noted for its temple oi Fortune.
The prophecies were delivered by two Fortunae, called by lilartial, v.
1. 3, veridicae sorores, and by Suetonius, rot-tunae Antiattace. See
Ouliy. chap. 57. 6.

14. protectionem praepararet: Tacitus, Ana. i. 47 (14 aa),
states that aiter ,making elaborate preparations, he put off his journey
on various pretexts, and imposed upon the provinces lor a long time.

17. Callippidas: proverbial for a ‘slew-coam) Of. Cic. ad Att.
xiii. 12. 3, biennium praeteriit cana ille Καλλιπίδης assiduo cursa
cubitant nnllam processerit.

20. Germanicus: on hisadoption by Tiberius, see above on 11.
14. ln 16 nn. Tiberius, infinencetl by jealousy, according to Tacitus,
recalled Germanicus from his victorious career in Germany, and placed

him in complete control oi the East. Some thought that secret in-

structions had been given Piso, governor oi Syria, to thwart and
embarrass Germanicus. It was also rumored that Plancia, Piso's wife,
had been instigated by the Empress Livia to annoy Agrippina, wife of
Germanicus. Germanicus' illness and death were attributed to sorcery
and poison employed by Piso. Of this, however, there is no proof.
For the whole story, cf. Tacitus, Ana. ii. 69 seq. Drusus: Tibe-
rius' own son. He was poisoned, 23 n.1>., hy his eunuch Lygdus,
incited to the deed by SeJanns3 cf. Tac. Ann. iv. 8 ; Dio, lvii. 22.

21. secessum Campaniae petit: Tacitus, Arm. iv. 57, remarks
that most authors attributed his retirement to the influence of Sejanus,
hut inasrnuch as Tiberius continued in retirement for six years after
the fall of Sejanus, he is inclined tc attribute it to the emperor's
morose and licentious character„ Other causes suggested are, shame
because oi his disgusting personal appearance, and the arrogant con-
duct ci his mother.

 

