risa a] noras or arenariis. 147

22. atquae.. . subiit: see thestory in Aul, Geli. x. 6. novo
more: te. a woman had not been convicted on this charge before.

23. majestatis: sc. rairartce or laesae. The majesty oi the state is
meant.

25. Pulcher: this is the Pulcher mentioned iu line 3above. In
consequence oi his disregard oithe omens, his fieet was destroyed and
many Romans perished.

27. dumtaxat: see Introd. 1156, b ( ).

28. ob expellendum, etc: cb with the gerundive to denote pur-

’ pose is rather rare3 cd or cerasa is usually employed. Os. Sall. Jca
89. aeabatarnas Irryrathcaa ob saos curandos ia arianas veatzaraa.
plebeio homiui: Fonteius was his name; cs. Cic. de dorato 555,
14. 35. Clodius did this that he might be eligible for the office ot
tribune oi the plebs, the only office opeu to hirnia which he could
introduce a bill for the banisbment oi Cicero.

30. assertoresque huicce, etc: the belief that the members of
the Claudian gens systematically opposed and hated the plebeians has
been shaken by Mommsen. 'l'he decemvir, at least, seems to have
been their friend.

Pagess. 1. mutare vestem: the regular Latin expression ior
putting on mourniug gerb as a sign oiydistress.

3. tribunos plebi pulsaverint: au act oi impiety, as the person
oi a tribune oi the plebs was sucrescunt. ι

4. tratrem: Valerius llaximus,.a 4. 6, says that the Vestal did
this lorber father. So Cicero, pro 0551. 14. 34. Her father (or
brother) was consul iu 143 ao. The reason the tribune had for inter-
fering was the fact that the ceremony was being held illegally.

8. utrumque: oa both sides.

11. materno aro: isse. the father 51 Tiberius’ mother, Livia.

12. quamquam: see Introd. ξ 6, a.

15. Salinatore: M. Livius Salinator was condemned ou the ’-
charge 51 having unfairly dividedthe booty taken in the war against
the Illyrians, aud he abstained from taking part iu public life ior
a considerable time thereatter. In his second consulship (207 uc.)
he helped Claudius Nero, his colleague defeat Hasdrubal ou the
Metaurus. When censor> iu 204 rac. he imposed a tax upon salt,
raising the price 51 this necessary article, in consequence 51 which
the surname Salinator was given him in derision. Of. Livy, xxix.
37. 4. Drusisque: Drusus was the name oi a distinguished family
51 the Liviau gensv With regard to the founder oi the family

 

