30 LA TIN.

OOffwe filiii? 8ΘΥῘΘ8. continued.

run noscerentur on arturus.

¹ With introduction and vNotes by Professor EDter W. FAY, of the
University of Terias. ramo, eloth, 204 peges. Priee, pron.

The introduction contains acareful and comprehensive analysis
of the versification and dialect of Plautus, together with a descrip-
tion of his style. The notes are designedly fully in the matter
of translation they aim to reproduce the metaphor or turn of
thought of the original.

Professor Mortis H.'Morgan, Harnard fflziversity: We have long wanted,
an edition of this play suited to the use of students in American Colleg‘es, ’
andi am happy to find that Professor Fay's book seems likely to fill this
want in the most acceptable manner. Ι am particularly pleased with his
treatment of the dialect of Plautus in the introduction, and with the many
parallels drawn from the Elizabethan drama which l find in the notes of
this scholarly edition.

Professor william K. Bennisoa, Tusa Collega. Mass: Ι have taken great
pleasure in the examination of Fay's Mostellaria. ‘lt seems to ine to he a
most excellent piece of work. I shall certainly use it when I read the
play in my classes. '

LIVY‚ Bonus 1.‚ xxr.. Alto XXII.

With Introduction and Notes by Professor J. HsWEsTcowr, Prineeton
’ University. ramo, eloth, 426pages. Psinettraffi

An attempt has been made in this volume to present in simple
and convenient form the assistance needed by young students
making their first aequatae rce with Livy.

The editor's experience in the class-soom has led him to anno-
tate the text copionsly. On the other hand, that fulness of illus-
tration which apparently aims to supersede the function of the
'teacher has been mrefully avoided.

Professor James H. Dillard, Tulatze fflrivmity, New 0rleans‚1:a.‚· I
should like to say that Westcott's Livy is the most satisfactory tert-boolt—

that l lmow of. Other works may put on a greater show of leaming;
hut when one comes to every-day class-roem use, the editing of this text

is found to be exceptionally satisfactory.

l

'ttae-neme
22-28

 

