196 - , noras ou rmnams. . , [rien 39

whether silver dishes with golden emblems were forbidden, Tiberius
nsued a new decree, but lorbade the use of the word ‘emblem' be-
cause it was Greek, and that, too, notwithstanding the lact that there
was no exact equivalent iuLati11.⁷’

7. ἕμβληματ the enabletnata were inlaid figures ot metal attached by
riveting or soldering to the exterior or interior ol cups. For this word
the Latin had no equivalent, aethe sigilla, aword oi nearly the same
meaning, probably formed an integral part ot the vessel.

8. nostratem: sc. vocem.

9. per ambitum verborum: by a circumlocatioa. In Latin
rhetoric the word caathitas also means ‘the period!

10. Graece . . . interrogatum: why he was questioned in Greek
isnotapparent. Possibly his interlocutor knew no Latin. Os. Dio,
lvii. 15, “ He likewise torhaue a centurion, who was about to give his
testimony in Greek before tho senate, to do so, though he had himseli
listened to many cases presented in that language before that body,
and had asked questions with regard to many ol these.”

12, redire conatus: cf. Tac. Aac. vi. l (32 n.n.): “Tiberius
sailed along the coast oi Campania, either intending to enter the city,
or making that pretence, because he had really decided not to do s0.
He eren came as iar as the gardens oi the Tiber, but ashamed oi his
wickedness and lust, he again made ior his solitary retreat among the
rocks in the sea.'²

13. ad proximos naumachiae hortos: to the guadeas that were
netu the artificial laice denoted to traval rnenoencres. The word acart-
mechio means either a shanr navat battle, as in Cleant. ohap. 21, 14, or
the place oi such an exhibition, as in the present instance. This
tranntachle was the ammaonte aaran ot Augustus in the Xthh regio
oi the city across the Tiber, on one edge oi which was the grove oi.
the Caesars. Cf. Any. 43, item vaccule proelium circe Tiberim cavato
solo ia quo reatae Caesarum nemus est. The Mon. Arzcyreaata, chap,
23, gives the dimensium, ataaelz's proeli spectaculum caat huns
Tiberim, in qao loco rzaac aternus est Caesarum, ravato solo lu laragi-
tudinem tuille et octingentos pedes, ia latitudinem natue et ducentos.
Xiphilin, lxvi. 25, is authority lor the statement that the place was used
tor such exhibitione aiter the time of Augustus; cs. Nero, ehap. 27. 3.

14. statione: te. the guard or ganisan stationed there.

15. Appia: sc. Vin, the great southern highway extending from
Rome to Brundisium. lt followed the coast closely as iar as Capua,
its original terminal. From there it was constructed across the penin-
sula to Brundisium.

 

