rrae se] aorns oa ohannins. 255

begun by Agrippa and finished by Augustus. The ballots were here
distributed and counted, largesses issued to the people and gifts
bestowed upon the soldiery.

24. familiarum: slaves. Introd.Il.§l,d. auxilio: dative of
purpose. ’

25, ex omnibus vicia: fron] all quarters oi ihc city. For the
word aicae, see note on p. 41. 29. '

26. lisois: the liberal meaning, sach, is to be given fiscos in the
present passage. repraesentans : the word means ‘to bring before
one,' and hence ‘to do a thing immediately,’ as, ior instance, to pay
money on the spot.

27. artiore autem annona, etc. : on the 000000, seev note on p.
6. 2i. Os. Tac. Airai. xii. 43 (51 n.n.): “A iailureoi the crops and
ζ - the resulting famine was regarded as a prodigy. Nor were the conr-
> plaints of the populace confined to murmurs: they even gathered
round the prinae widi tumultuous shouts, while he was adniinistering
, Justice, and, driving him to the extremity of tire Forum, pressed upon
him with violence, till at length, by means of acompaot body oi
soldiers, he forced his way through the incensed multitude. liis
certain that there was at that time in Rome provision for but fif-
teendays.¹³
⁷ 29. conviciisque et simul fragminibus: note the zeugma,

‘abused and assassed‘etc ³

30. postico: posta·a; Orosius, vii. 6. 17, in telling the story, uses
= the word pserraoaayram,“secret door.'

31. nihil non excogitavit: lae thought eseber-y possible plan,

ἠ Pegella. 1. si cui quidzsa' affecte qaid as weilascai.
, 3. pro condicione cuiusque: explained by the clauses following.
' 4. legis Papiae Poppaeae: see note on p. 21. 22.
5. ius Quiritium: equivalent to aas civitatis. The lawyers did,
indeed, make a distinction; when a Latiaris obtained Roman citizen-
¹slrip, he was usually said to obtain ias 90011100,οε here; when a
peregrinas obtained such rights, ias civitatis was considered the
proper expression. iue quattuor liberorum: according to a pro-
vision of the lea Papia Poppaea, free-born women were released from
⁵. taatelc aiter having horne three children, aud ireedwomen after having
bornefour. ’
7. opera magna potiusquam necessaria et multa perfecit: the
¹manuscript reading is, opera mapale praeterquam raecesscric patara
¹ ararica, ior which Roth and the older editions have opero mayoc

 

