tte uerus ou TIBERIUS. [ena 23

22. constanti et opinione: Tacitus, Aua iv. 58, relates that the
astrologers asserted that 'liberius leit Rome under such a conjunction
ci the planets that return was impossible. lilany, jumping at the
conclusion that be was soon to die, spread such a repert and paid the
penalty with their lives.

23λ quasi . . . rediturus: a rather interesting case ot the use ol
qamt aud a participle, instead ol a finite verb iu a substantive clause,
as explained in lutrod. 11. §lt c.

24. quod paulo minus utrumque evenit: butt of which lacbed
but little os corniap trae, Pecto is ablative ot degree ol differeuce.

26. Tarracinam: atown ot Latium formerly called Artatur.
Some distance irem this is the modern village ot Sperlonga (spetunca),
where a cave showing traces oi ancient decoration may still be
seen. praetorio: a litcpaifieeut country villo. A post-Augustau
meaning. Originally it 'meant the headquarters‚ or dwelling, oi the
general (praetor).

27. complura et ingenua saxa, etc: according to Tacitae, Aua
iv. 59, SeJanus protected the emperor irom the falling debris by
interposing his own body, aud was found in this posture hythe
soldiers who came to the rescne.

30. Capitolium: this wasa temple oi Jove placed on the Capitol
at Capua, and corresponding to the Capitolium at Rome. Nolae:
the place oi Augustus' death. ¹

31. eausam . . . praetenderat: es. Tac. Arta, iv. 57 (26 mn),
abscessit, spara detlicandi tennala opud Capuam Iovi, apricitatem
Artpusto, sed certus procul arbe clepere. ’ ’

32. Capreas: modern Capri. This beautiful little island, uine
miles in circumference, lies south of the guli oi l’uteoli. Tacitus,
Anu. iv. 67, speaks oi its charms, and states that its climate was mild
in winter because ot the protectior afforded by mountai'ns¹ and eool in
summer because exposed to the west winds, and that its outlook over
the bay ot Campania was delightiul.

Paga 24. 3, revocante assidua obtestatione: persistentia] aa·
tremore aad adjuriop Irim to return.

4. apud Fidenas: tortoreeoi cyrtrd, see Introd. II.§5(1). Fide-
ace (also in singular Fidens) was situated at the junction oi the Anio
and the Tiber‚ five miles trem Rome. The amphitheatre teil because
of poor construction 3 es. Tac. Arta. iv. 62.

11. decurias equitum: though a disputed point, it seems best
to understand decerpta here as a iudicial term, Suetonius else·

 

