rua 31] roras on marmus. 187

Pdge 31. 1. πηλὸν αἵματι πεῴυραμένοντ mod ltrteodecl with blood.

2. id est lutum, etc, : a gloss.

4. moderationis simulatione: see introductory'note on Tiberius,
p. 113.

5. scur'ram: probably an ordinary jester, and not one of the mimes
who sometimes followed and bantered in the funeral procession. Dio,
lvii. 14, says that some one was seen to whisper in the ear of a dead
man, aud when asked what he had said, replied that he had com-
manded the corpse to announce to Augustus that the people had as
yet received nothing, referring to the legacies that Augustus had left
them..

8. recipere debitum: aplay upon the word richilam, ‘what was
due him,' te. his portion of the legacy, cr death, whloh latter was the
emperor’s meaning.

11. pemeganti: pernego, ‘to refuse absolutely,' is archaic and
post-Augustam

12. Pompeianus: a Pompeiae, tle. subject to proscription and
death, as were the partisans of Pompey. acerba cavillatione,
etc: ntalciny o bitiuy pon upton tlte rnou's name, aad the wrissortnre
of the old party, te. the l’ompeians. On the plural, partiam, see
note on p. 4. 6.

14. iudicia maiestatis cogi, eta: proceedinys oyoinst treosou to
he pressea. On meaning of contestas, see note on p. 2. 23. Tacitus,
Ana. i. ragnemundus oi this praetor as Pompeius Macer„ He
also remarks that Tiberius revived the old law of caelestes, but gave
it a wider application than of old. As illustrated in the following
examples, anything that injured the dignity of the state as represented
in the person of the emperor, might be construed as treasonahle3 cf.
uro, lvii. 19. ’

16. statuae quidam, eie. : Tacitus, Aac i. 74 (15 ain), states that

¹in the trial of Granius Marcellus, praetor of Bithynia, this among
other charges was brought against him, but that he was finally ab·
solved from the charge of treason.

18. per tormenta quaesita est: tc. the witnesses were treated
like slaves whose testimony could be received only under torture.

21, cecidisse: from caedo, ‘to heat' effigiem: te. Augustus'.

23. existimatione aliqua laesisse : to haue criticised.

26. multa praeterea. . . factitavit, etc: lncreooer, he com-
mitted so otony nuel aad savoya deeris ululet· the ytrite os stricloess ia
correctiora the morals of the state, bot really Jhllowlug his notrool
instincta, thot, etc.

 

