268 ' uorns ou oraturus. Ἴ trin oc

such expressions as aeroas, etc, cb studiis, ob epistulis orationibus
etc, the Latin conception is, a slave from the point of view ci studies,
correspondente, accounts, etc. ,· os. note cn p. 138. 28.

²⁰:³¹ amissum ι the chiei iactor in the fall oi Messalina. He was
put tc death in the reign cl Nero by the machinations ci Agrippina3
cf Tac. Anu. xiii 1. Pallantem: brother oi Felix, and notorious
ior his haughtiness and great wealth. He never deigned to speak to
his ownfreedmen, but indicated his wishes by gestures or in wrlting;
Tac. Aac. xiii. 23. a rationibus: cocoavttout.

22. quaeston’is praetoriisque: these distinctions did not confer
the rank, but entitled the recipients to wear the dress and sit at
festivals with persons cl that rank. Claudius appears tc have been
the first to confer such hcnors upon ireedmen. In the time of the
republio, such marks ct favor, rarely given, were restricted to senators.
Tiberius was the first tc hestcw the honor upon any one below senato-
rial rank. He gave the praetorto ortmntenta to Sejanus, aknight.

23. acquirere et rapere: so. passus est. ’

24. fisci: in the time ot the empireflscus, the imperial treasury,
is to be distinguished from the aaronem, or public treasury. nou
absurde: not toltltcut potat

25.. in consortium: into pertractabit).

27. ministrum egit: see note on p. 9. 11. compendio cuius
que, etc: os tt suited tlte educatrice, crocea the wtslt or tlte utere
tauta cs cuch of these. The ablatives a're causal.

30. insciens plerumque et ignarus: attinuere aad laborant for
tlte ritost burt of *rotat bc toas dotnq.

31. revocatas liberalitates, etc. : appositives to ntz'norc.

32. suppositos arrt etiam palam, etc. .· tlte siitsttuuton of salse
letters pateat, cr fluerent chauces triade tu those circuilu created.

‘Pago 97. 1. Appium suanum: mo, ix. tarentasiensis
married hy Claudius to the mother ol Messalina. He was put to ’
death because be rejected the advances ci the latter.

2. consocerum: one os bis fathers-tatum. His son had been be-
trothed tc Claudia. Note how rich the Latin language is in words
indicating degrees ot relationship. Iuliasque, etc: they had been
exiled by Gaius and recalled by Claudius.

4. maioris filiae ι’ Antonia, daughter ol Claudius and Petina.

5. 11. Silanum minoris sponsum: betrothed to Octavia, daughter
oi Claudius and Messalina. For the charges brought against him, and
his death, see Tac. Acta xii. 4 and 8.

 

