150 noras on ‘irmarus [racel

16. Fundis: mian, the modern Foruli, was an ancient town cl
Latium on the Appian Way.

20. in Palatio: on the Palatina ‚· the iashionable quanter.

21. XVI Kal. Dec: November it, 42 ac.

22. per bellum Philippense: tc. the campaign conducted hy
Antony and Octavian against the tyrannicides headed by Brutus and
Cassius. The struggle was terminated hythe battle oil'hiiippi,
fought in the autumn of 42 ac. .

23. actaque: acto, sometimes used alone⁷ sometimes modified by
the words publica, diurna, arbaco. papati, etc, siguifies the official
gazette published at Rome. This was the nearest approach to a
modern newspaper among the Romans. The <tcto contained informa
tion oi more general interest than the fasti, which were official records.
Acta is sometimes used to signiiy the minutas or records oi euact-
ments; cf. Tit. chap. va. 5, ia ccctis sencias.

24. Hirti ac Pansae: Hirtius was an officer and friend oi Caesar,
and completed Caesar's commentaries on the Gallio war by adding the
eighth book. While cooperating with Octavian, he defeated Antouy
at Mutina, 43 ac, bnt was killed while storming the town. Pansa
had been wounded in a previous engagement at Mutina, dying a fort-
night aiter. The death oi the consuls, leaving the republi'c without
its chief magistrates, greatly strengthened the position ci Octavian.

27. infantiam pueritiamque hahuit, etc: be passed ltis't'nscncy
arrd yorrtb ctitid licitlsln'ps atad disturbantes.

28. apud Neapolim: ior the force oi critici, see lntrod. ll. ξ 5 ( ).
This use oi carad is much affected by Suetonius and Tacitus.

29. sub irruptionem hostis: te. just as the loe was breaking into
the city.

Page 5. 1. mulierculas: the diminutive is frequently used to
indicate the weakness oi the sex. -

3. in tutela Claudiorum: ic. the Claudian gens acted as their
patrous

9. bullae aureae: the bulla tras a holiow disk oi gold, silvea or
leather, containing a charin, which was hung around the neck ol boys
as a protection against the* Evil Eye. The golden bulla was an indi-
cation oi high birth.

11. nomine: sc. Gallio. All that is known of this Gallius, is that
he was oi praetorias rank and belonged to the party ol Antony.

12. partium: on the plural, see note on p. 4. 6.

13, pro rostris: oa tlte frent part of, te. from tlte rostra.

 

