258 nouus ou eunomus. [rita eo

9. in ordinem redegisse: hod restored theru to their proper period.

10. invitantis more sollemni: iuoituutis, concrete for obstruet
inuitandi. sollemni: customary. Ι

13, quidam histrionum, eto: Pliny, N. H. vil. 159, mentions one
stephanio, who performed at both celebrations.

14, in Vaticano: so. oollo; te. inthe sutanum, where the obelisk
mentioned above stood. ’

¹ 15. per quinos missus: oster eoeryfioe ooorsos roo by the ohoriots.
The regular number oi eourses per day was twenty-tour, tour ohariots
eontendIng in each course.

16. .carcen'bus: the arohed chambers where the oharlots stood
awaiting the signal to start ι

17. metis: the three conioal pillars at either end oi the spino,
around whioh the ohariots ran seven times per oourse. telina:
estote· this stone and travertine, both oi voleanio origin, are even
now largely used ut Rome ior building purposes. ⁵

18. propria . . . loca: this oi course refers to seats in the eireus.
Senators possessed this privilege in the theatre as early as 194 so.
promiscue: this does not meon thet the senators had not sat together,
but that they had hitherto hed no definite place assigned to them.
That sueh is the ideo is clear irom Dio's words, lx. l, “The different
orders, senators, knights, and plebs, before this time sat by themselves,
but no definite places had been assigned. Claudius now assigned to
the senators the seats whieh they oooupy at the present time.” Nero
made the same regulation with regard to the knights3 see Nero, ehap.
ll. 9.

19. Troiae lusum: see note on p. 5. u. ·

20. Ahicanas: see note on p. 52. u ς of'. Dio, lx. 7: ‘⁴ In the circus,
there wus one exhibition oi oamels and twelve oi horses. Three hun-
dred bears and the same number oi wild beasts from Airiee were
slain.'' conficiente: leontino thero douo.

22. Thessalos equites, etex: tuis iorni oi amusement originated
inThessaly. Qf. Pliny N. H. viii. 182: “The people oi Thessaly
invented a method oi killing bulis, by means oi a inan on horsebaolr,
who would ride np to them, and, seiziug one oi the horns, so twist
the nsok. Caesar, the dictator, was the first person who exhibited
this speotaole at Rome.”

26. anniversarium: te. the anniversary oi his being proolaimed
emperor, appropriately observed in the praetorian camp.

2⁷. Saeptis: see note on p. 12. Π.

29. sportulam: the sportolo, originally a small basket, cameto

 

