rna ee] f noras ou uiuamus. ο 195

his style. Conpled with adsectatione, it eonveys the idea of stiff and
unnatural. Augustus, Any. 86, censured Tiberius for this inuit: uec
Tiberio ptarcit et euoletcs interdum et reconditas ncces circumdati.
Tacitusr Aua i. 11, also speaks oi his obscurity oi style: Tiberio
etiarn iu rebus quius riou occuleret, seu uuturu siue adsuetudine, sus-
pensuseuiper et obscura cerba. Elsewhere (Aua xiii. 3) he states
that the obscurity was intentional.

17. ex tempore: i. e. when speaking without previous preparation.
a eura: ie. aiter meditation, as contrasted with ecc tempore. For the
preposition, see Introd. Il. ξ 5 (1), d senine.

19. L. Caesaris: see note on p. 7. 19.

20. Euphorionem: au obscure tragic poet oi Chalcis, who lived
in the third century ac. Rhianum: a Oretan,'and a contempo-
rary oi Euphorio. Parthenium: a Greek erotic poet ci the age oi
Augustus. He was Virgil's Greek teaeher. There are extant frum
his pen thirty-six prose sketches on the theme oi unhappy lovers.

22. veteres: ie. authors before the time of Alexander the Great.

24. certatim. . . ediderunt: ie. they vied with each other in
writing commentaries on these poets, which they dedicated to Tibe-
rius.

25. historiae tabularis: uuytlrclcpy.

29. inter virgines: Thetis, to prevent Achilles irom taking part
in the Trojan war, sent him, disguised as a maiden, to the court oi
Lycomedes, king oi the island oi Scyros, where he was known as
Pyrrha (erfir), from his auburn hair. 011 these erudite questions,
cf. Jnv. vii. 233 seq.

31. pietati: ‚cilici duty.

32. Minoisexemplo: ic. siue tibiciue; the story being that
Minos, while offering sacrifice on the island oi Paros, heard oi his
son's death. He took the garland from his head, ordered the music
to stop, and then proceeded with the sacrifice. The words, Minois
euerrrprlo, therefore, refer merely to siue tibicine and not to icccc uc uiuo.

Pagessii. 2. alioqui: conciliasanctam cf. German iiberbuupt.
Jnined with quurrrquunc, the word has a strong concessive ioree.
Render, ciotucitlistuudiuy tlte suet ilict.

4. monopolium: cf. note on p. 19. 8.

6. cum in quodam decreto patrum, eta: the circumstances
are given by Dio, lvii. 15: “Tiberius issued an edict to the effect that
nc man should wear garments oi silk, nor eurploy golden dishes‚
except ior¹ purposes oi saerificing. When some were in doubt as to

 

