286 roras or nano. [rra 112

the concrete ratm'stros. He exhibited them as combatants and as
slaves performing the mental services about the arena; see Introd.
11„ tl, ei. For a fuller account oi this degradation see Xiph. lxi. li.

29. naumachiam marina aqua: aaran is ablative oi quality;
te. the place was ilocded with sea-water, as stated by Xiph. lxi. 9.
For the meanings oi rraeaaacbta, see note on p. 39. 13.

30. pyrrichas: atvar danae ci Dorio origin. lt was danced to
the sound oi the riute, iu rapid metantes, by men dressed iu tumor,
and represented the various movements of attach and deience. As
the expression alberichus quasdam e rectinere epheborum is a somewhat
strained expression to signiiy ‘war danaes daneed by a number oi
youths,’ Madvig's‚ among other emendations, may be cited, -pyrri-
cbtstas quosaam. epheborum: see Introd. Π. §L a( ).

31. diplomata: the eluricum was a paper iolded double ; in gen-
eral, a document drawn up by a magistrate, conferring a privilege
upon the reciptent.

Page 113. 1. cubiculum: a sort oi imperial pavilion or box3
doubtless so named because the emperor reolined there. lt was
situated above the seats assigned to senators and knights and in the
part assigned to the third class oi spectatos, and is probably the
same as the sriyyestas. '

3. podio: the podiam was the wall (about twelve ieet high) that>
separated the arena from the spectators. The top oi this, as being the
hest place to see the combats, was assigned to spectators oi the highest
rank. Here the word means that portion oi the terrace on the portua
which was used as a royal bor.

5. instituit et quinquennale, eta: this was in the year ob ως
cs. Teo. Arta. xiv. 20; they are also called Neronia. Xiph.‚ lxi. 21,
says that they were celebrated ior the saie continuanee oi Nero's
reign,

7. thermis atque gymnasio: these baths and gymnasia included
open aud covered colonnades ior conversation, instruction, and physi-
cal exercise. There were also gaudens, hails, librarios, and everything
that could conduee to the comfort and amusement oi visitors. Oi
these particular hot baths, no vestige remains3 cs. Entr. vii. 15, aedifi-
cavit Boutae thermas qaae arete Neronianae dictae rrrtacAleacudriaue
astruebantur. So named in honor oi Alexander Severus.

9. toto: a rare dative iorm instead oi toti.

10. sede praetorum: see Introd. ΙΙ, ξ 2, a (2). The meaning is

that they sat where the praetors sat when presiding. in orchestram

 

