PAGE oo] ’ novus ou caurauni.. 223

15. paene adversus omnis aevi, etc: lie ossailed otoakiud of
uitaost every epocli. Graevius conjectured omm to be supplied beiore
omme, and this Madvig deems necessary to the sense. Hominum
petius seems to be good Latin, however, to render the above thought.

19. atque disiecit : olid scottered the fragments.

20. vetuitque, eie: Dio, lx. 25, states that Claudius also forbade
statues erected except hy order oi the senate, lor the reason that the
city was already crowded with those that had been erected indiscrimi-
nately.

21. nisi consulto et auctore se: Introd. Π. ᾗ 6, b (1). Ἴ

23. qui eum e civitate: ie. from his ideal state. Plato, in his
Repubiiu does not, in so many words, forbid the reading oi Homer.
He does, however, express his disapproval ol much that Homer teoches.
Cicero, De Republica, iv. 5. 5, however, uses this expression : epo cero
eodem, quo iile Homerum redimitum coronis ei delibutum sumpticulis
comitii erc eo moe, quam sibi igme fimyit.

’ 24. Titi Livi: the famous historiari.

26. minimaeque doctrinae: an unjust criticism, for it is in his
antiquarian knowledge that Vergil excels.

2⁷. neglegentem: in fact, this is Livy's chiel fault, due to his
erroneous conception oi the duty of an historiam.

29. se mehercule effecturum, ere. .· thot lio, iu soilli, iroidd see to
it ,rici they could pice uo leym advice coutrmp to liis crisim· lit. ‘con-
trary to' or ‘disregardiug him.³ Ipsum would be more common ; se
could not be used, as' it would reier to the subject oi possim. Respon-
dere has its technical meaning oi ‘ give legal advice as a juriscoustdt'
N ote the use of caedercuie in an indirect quotation.

32. Torquato torquem: how the founder oi the line, Manlius,

' slew a mighty Gaul in single combat, and took his collar (torquis) oi
gold, and in consequence received the title Torquatus, is told by Quin-
tus Clandius Quadrigarius, quoted by Aulus Gellius, ix. 13. Cin-
cinnato: the word means ‘one with curly hair' (ciriciacus). The
Lucius Quinctius who first hore the cognomen is mentioued by Livy,
iii. 12. How Gaius deprived the Cincinnati ol their distinctive marl(v
vve are leit to conjecture. Cn. Pompeio stirpis antiquae, etc:
oiid from etiamn Pooipep of <arietent¹ iirieoye, ide surricime os tire
erean- i.e. a name hereditary andei long standing in the family.
Dio, lx. 5, represents Gaius as saying on this occasion that it was not
saie ior any one to hear that title. Dio also remarks that but lor
the youth oi Pompey, the title would have been the cause oi his
death.

 

