244 riorus on CLAUDIUS. . [rtet re

28, Athenodoro: the Stolo philosopher ot Tarsus. Octavius
attended his oourses at Apollonia, and afterward brought him to
Rome. Strabo, xiv. 4. 14, speaking oi two philosophers, both named
Athenodorus, continues: “ The other son of Sandon, ealled Conites,
from the name ot his village, was the preceptor of Caesar (Xe. Augus-
tus) who consented upon him great honor. In his old age he returned
to his native lnnd,'' eto. It this be the man referred to by Suetonius,
as seems likely, he must have lived to an advanoed age. qui: the
antecedent is Tiberiane above. minus μετεώρωςε oon preater core ;
lit. ‘less tlightily) ν

29. motum et habitum et incessum: noverimne, contege, ond
port. .
30. misellus ἀτυχεῖ, eta: the poor sellom is stofortooote5 for in
serious titanos tehen bis lnirtol is not olouded, be pines evidence of
nootlz'tv of soal. See Introd. II. ἓ l, o. The diminutive expresses

pity.

PttgtssO¹ 3. tostostootsttnonp. qui: hoto. σαῴὢςεοίθανῑῃ.
Seneca, Apoo. 5, attributes to Claudius a voioe like that oi no human
being, but like the roar oi a sea monster, hoarse and inarticulate.

5. quid. . . constituerit: an indireot question. Somevvhat
loosely, bnt with no possibility ot being misunderstood, Suetonius
continues, et reliquerit, where the render readily supplies ostio, sng-
gested by the introductory words, neo osorton est. post haec:
te. after suoli an expression ot his opinion.

8. e parte sexta nuncuparit: nomed ltine heir to o stato portos
bis estote. The expression e seatonte or in sextante might bave been
used 3 see note on p. 15. 30.

9. octingentorum sestertiorum: about stubbs. Sestertiotvnn
is the genitive oi sestertio, not sestertii.

10. prosecutus: see note on p. 14. 17.

11. consularia ornamenta: te. simply the title and insignia oi
the consulship without the povver, of, trvuntpholio ornamento.

12. legitimos: se. bonores; te. as opposed to the mere oroo-
orento.

13. quadraginta aureos: about sebo. For the otoens, see note
011 p. bb. 5. in Satmmalia et Sigillaria: tor the duratIon oi the
Saturnalia, see note on p. 52. 2. The sixti] and seventh days of the
Satiunalia were eallecl the Stptllotn‘o, from the sale oi the terra-totta
figures used as gitts at that season. Ι

17. ex contubernio sordidissimorum: ior meaning ot conto

 

