rica 104] noras on ennomus. ·. 275

25, velutin auditorio: ‘as tu a public lecture roone.

¹27. signa quaedam, cto: cs. Dio’s account, lx. -34, “Claudius¹
indeed, began to hear oi Agrippina's conduct, and was proroked by
it. lloreover, he inissed Britannicus, whom Agrippina purposely kept v
irem his sight, endeavoring in every way to advanceher own son
Nero. Claudius decided netto endure' this longer, hut to displace
Agrippina, and appoint his own son as his successor,'’

30. cognitionem: trial.

31. sibi quoque in tacte, eta: that tt was his fate to finci all itis
wives fitithlesa hat ποι to let thent escape tttpanishcd, cs. Tac. Ana

'¹ xii. 64.

Pago 104. 2. et subinde obvium sibi, etc. &Tacitus Aac. xii.

65, attributes about the same conduct to Pallas, the freedman.
³ 3. rationemque a se, etc: ι’. e. he would hand orer thepower to him.
› 5. ὁ τρώσας καὶ iniceret: he who had antistat the coornat, toill also
·, caretate. thewoundinflicted hy the adoption oi Nero. Telephus,
ζ wounded hy Achilles, was intormed by an oracle in 'these words
quoted by, Claudius, that only the ‘wounder' could heal him. ’

6. quando statura permitteret: he was tall ior his years. ‘
¹ quando: since. ·

7. verum Gaesarem: one oi th'e real line andxnot Caesars by,
- adoption, as were Tiberius, Caligula, and Nero

11. quam praetentam, eta: acho, ht aciclitton to oli this, aas

ὁσίης] ecortsed of cateray crimes, aot only hythe informers, bathon het·
’ otottconscienceastreli. ’
” ’ 14. etvenenoquidem occisum, etc. ,: accordingtoTacitus,Aaa.
xii. 66 and ot, the poison was prepared by a woman‘named Locusta,
who even then was under sentence iorpoisoning. tt was administered
by Claudius' praepotenter, Halotus, in adish of mushroonis. Apoison
had been selected which would act slowly and cloud the mind. Be-
cause oi Claudius' sluggish temperament it failed to act as was antici-

pated, and then Xenophon, his physician, under pretence ol relieving
the stomach, inserted a poisoned ieather in his throat. Dio, ln. 34,
¹ states that Locusta prepared the poison and that Agrippina admin-
istered itin a dish oi mushrooms. He does not mention Halotus or
Xenephou. Α ’ ’

15. in arce: te. in the Capitol.

16. vpraegustatorem ε it was the custom to maintaina slave whose
t , duty it was to taste the iood oi the emperor or princes, as a precaution
against poisoning. ”

 

