18ss nouus on rmnnrns. [rrae 30

stituit coasilio sortr'rtsenrenstrie cernentibus de rreyottis od frequentem
seratura referendis rente tractaret. Of, Dio, lvii. 7.

13. Aelium Seianum: see note ou p.26. 9. The account oi his
death is among the lost porticus oi Tacitus⁷ works. For a detailed
account oi his influeuce aud tall, see Dio, lviii. 2-15. An English
translation oi these chapters may be found in Alleu's edition oi the
Aureolo ol Tacitus, pp. 343-353. Also es. dur. Sat. x. 56-113λ ad
summam potentiam, etc: Suetonius' reason is hut a shallow one, aud
is not supported by the statements oi other authors. Dio, lviii. 14, in
stating that the charge oi being Sejanus' triend rivas sufficient to cause
ouc's condemnatiou, says: “As though Tiberius had not loved him3
ior which reason, others, too, had heeu so devoted to him.”

15. nepotemque: Tiberius, son ot Drusus, killed by Caligula3 ef,
Caliga chap. 23, ab.

16. suum naturalem: tes orere, te. not by adoption,

18. Graeculos: see note on p. 8. 9. quibus vel maxime ao-
quiescebat: to rotrone he devoted e erent decl of attention. Qtribns
is dative. For the meamng ot acquiescere with the dative, see note
on p. 19. 17. Ii ortibus be taken as ablative, render ‘in whom he took
especial delight.’ This is the rendering oi the iteraturus Limnaee
Latinae, but the first seems preferable.

19. exquisitius sermocinantem: holdirre fortir e'rr ser-setelred
phrases.

21. molesta: lehorcd, or effectui,- a meaning common in Latin
rhetoric. dialectos (trtrerros>: nominative singular 5 a Greek
word in Latin dress.

22. Cinariam: probably the same as Gyrrnro, a small island in the
Aegean Sea, named irom the artiohohe (rtrupu) which it produced.

23. secessum: ie. at Rhodes.

25. Seleucum: a celebrated grammarian ot Alexandria, who
taught atRome: He wrote anumber oi commentarios on the Greek
poets and was surnamed Homericus.

26. quoque: tremoresque.

28. contubernio: see note on p, ll, 1.

30. lenta: phleqmotr‘r.

31. Theodorus: an eminent rhetorieian3 anative oi Gadara in,
Syria, but he taught at Rhodes. Quintilian, Irtst. Or. iii. 1, 17, states
that Tiberius, while at Rhodes, shewed great interest in attending his
lectores. rhetoricae: se. ortts; te. advanced instruction iu com·
position and oratory, as given by the aanor.

32. subinde: reow und then.

 

