304 noras ou nano. [rita 128

reign oi Nero, one appearing in the year 60 (Arni. xiv. 22), and the
other in the year 64 (Ana XV. tr).

27. Pisoniana: aplot formed against Nero in the year 65 nu. by
Cn. Piso and other nobles. Most oi those who icined it lost their
lives; auioug others, the poet Lucan. Viniciana: nothing further
is known oi the conspiracy oi Vinicius.

30. imputarent: :nodo coierit of it ; an expression horrowedirorn
the mart, and really meaning ‘to charge)

31. illi: ie. Nero; cy‘. Tac. Anni xv) 68.

Pege 129. 2. capsariis: slaves who carried a child's books, tab·
lets, cto, in a capso⁷ or satchcl‚ were termed capsarii.

3. prohibitos quaerere: tcptsrom seetinp.

4. dilectus aut modus: distinction or tiata· ic. he killed indis·
criminately. ’

’ 7. tabernas tres de domo: adonias oiten had shops and roonis
lating the streetand not connected with the interior, which the owner,
asin the casamentioned might rent.

8. ad stationem: cs concipienda· ic. ior their ambassadors¹
The public statio, or place set asido ior the ambassadors in the Forum,
where they might listen to the speeches and debates, was called the
cruentatos. Cassio Longino: heseerns to have been merely
exiled to the island oi Sardinia. Tacitus, Ana xvi. 7, says that -the
inscription on the bust oi Cassius read citici partiunt.

10. Paeto Thraseae ι a famous stoic philosopher and Roman sena-
tor. Nero was provoked with Thrasea because the latter had leit the
senate during the reading oi Nero¹s lying letter about his mcther's
death. Xiphilin, lxi. 21, states that Thrasea rose and leit the senate
because what he wished to say he could not, and what he could, he
would not. Thrasea was condemned to death in 66 nn).

12, trium horarum: this is the reading oi the Gudianus, and is ,
probably correct. aoth, with the Memmion and others, gives horo-
rinn without a numeral. ’ “ ¹

15. polyphago: πολυφάγος, osreoic with o niti-aculcos dipestion.

20. iecit: ictsoil.

22. equiti: collective, ‘lmights'

24. osculo impertiit: the normal construction with impertio is
dative oi the person aad accusative oi the thing, citiqnctn cecoton: ini-
pertire ,¹ then, as iu the present instance, it was construedasthe verb
dono is, with the accusative oi the person and ablativo oi the thing.

2⁵. opere Isthmi: see Catio, chap. 21. 29. ’

 

