Piae 72] uorns ow chritum. 235

¹ 25. recidit: because he lavored their opponente, the Thraeces.

26. venenum: Dic, lix. 14, states that he poisoned the most dis-
tinguished drivers oi the opposite factione.

28. prasinae factioni: according to Dio, lix. 14, this was Gaius'
lavorite party. The drivers oi the different chariots were distinguished
hythe color ot their garments. Hence, irorn the zeal with which
different people espoused the cause oi the different colors, there arose
tour parties or sections, named respectively, stratio albero (white),
prusiae (green), rosato (red), and cerreto (blus). When Domitian
instituted the practice oi starting six, instead ol four, chariots at once,
two new factions were added, factio arctato (golden) and purpura
(purple), but these were not long kept up. There were frequent riots
and enconnters between these various sections, the worst oi which
occurred at Constantinople in 532 rm. (the Nice rebellion), iu which
thirty thousand are said to have perished.

29. agitatori Eutycho: mentioned hy Josephus, Aut. Incl. xix.

- 4. t, as a driver of the green fection, very devoted to Gaius, and an
oppressor ot the soldiery, whom he had compelled to perform degrading
labor on the stables ol Nero.

30. apophoretis: the apophoreta were gifrs distributed to the
guests at a banquet, as sourenirs. vicies sestertium: about
tibullbss.

31. Incitato} a proper name, Flryer, Dio, lix. 14, tells almost
the same story about this horse, and affirms that Gaius would indeed
have appointed it consul, had he not been murdered so soon atter.

Pago 72, 1. equile: estable ¹tor horses. praesepe eburneum:
aa tuorp racaper.

3. familiam: c rctt'aue cf servants.

6. bacchantem atque grassantem: porsoiap his iasone arrd
cruci corase.

7. una alteraque conspiratione: Aemilius Lepidus, brother-in-
law ot Gaius, was involved in one conspiracy. Niceus Cerealis is
known to have betrayed one to Gaius. The conspiracy, ortginated in
39 an. by Gaetulicus, legatus oi upper Germany, is mentioned by Sue-
tonius in the Ltfe of OIorrrltnsf cs. note on p. 81. 30.

9. duo: Cassius Chaerea and Cornelius Sabinus.

12. in quadam coniuratione: te. in the conspiracy oi Cerealis

14. >nam et statim seductis, etc: arrd tuith reason, for hc inirac-
dr'otely ser thera astole arrd rost preca odirent oport thera by charron) his
saort, etc.

 

