rior aa] roras cn monulus. 185

17. Gemonias: sc. scalas, ie. ‘stairs oi lamentation’ This was
aflight leading troni the carcer to the Forum, and passing the Tulli-
anum, orlcwer· dungeon oi the carcer. It was on these stairs, near
the Tullianam, that the bodies oi malefactore were exposed.

21. tres nepotes: cf. Galia. chap. 7. ll.

23. morte liberorum : ie. oi his own son Drusus, and his adopted
' son Germanicus. · ’

24. patribus commendavit: this was in the year 20 nn, cs. Tan.
Ana iii. 29.

25. diem tirocinii: see note on p. 24. 21. congiario: see note
cup. 1324.

27. pro eorum quoque salute, eta: according toranus, Aac.
iv. 17, this action was induced by adulation, not by affection ior the
youth. On the emperor’s words, raca debere, eta, as given by Sueto
nius, the remark oi Tacitus makes a good commentary3 gilae (arita-
lutio) litoribus corruptis perinde triceps, st atalia et ahi nimiu est.
egit cum senatu: ha discursat the mutter arith mesenate, scylleo.

29. interiore animi eui nota: bis real seelicqs ia the laaner.
Nota here means ‘quality' ‘character'3 strictly it is the stamp or
label indicating the quality3 cf. Hor. dara. ii. 3. 8, interiore nota
Falerni. ’ ’

30. obnoxios reddidit : exposed thena.

32. accusavit per litterae: on the testimony oi Tacitus, Aac.
v. 3, he had ccmposed a letter directed against Agrippina and Nero,
but had been preventcd from publishing it by his mother during her
lile.

Pago 30. 5. uncos: the hooks with which the bodies oi male-
factors were dragged to the Tiber. The hook was fastened iu the
neck. adeo alimenta subducta, etc: Tacitus, Ana ri. 23, says
that he prolonged his lite until the ninth day by eating the stuffing
oi the mattress.

⁷. reliquias dispersas: cs. Dic, lviii. 22, ‘⁴ All were deeply grieved
to hear that he had forbidden the hones oi Drusus and Agrippina to
be laid in the Mausoleum ci Augustus, and that he had ordered them
secretly buried, that they might never he iound.'' Caligula, how-
ever, finally placed the remains ci Nero, Drusus, and Agrippina in the
Mausoleum cf. Dic, lix. 3. vix quandoque: raith difficulty some
tinae after. '

8. viginti sibi, etc: Tiberius followed the precedent established
by Augustus, in maintaining this privy counnil. Any. 35, sibique in·

 

