rios ro] noras oa TIBERIUS. Ἰ 197

16. lapidem: ie. the miliariam.

18. serpens draco: a serpent ; serpens is the participial adjective.
Serpents were frequently kept as pets by wealthy Romans.

21. Asturae: a town situated upon a small island at the mouth of
the river Astura, which ficas-between Antium and Circeii. Cicero
had an estate atthis place.

24. castrensibus ludis: ie. at games given hythe soldiers en-
camped at Circeii. The exhibition probably toolr place in the iorum
ol the town, which was covered with saud ior the purpose.

25. desuper petit: ie. he threw the weapons irom above the
arena. li the gemes were given in the forum, he was probably seated
in the Maeniana, ror which see note on p. 52. 21.

26. latere convulso: saxea witi a pain ia tiresiae. exaes-
tuarat: itaci become heated. ’

27. sustentavit, eta: cs. Tac. Ana. vi. 50: “At length his bodily
strength began to iail him. There was, however, the same stern
mind, the same‘energy in look and words3 at times an assumption oi
affability to conceal his weakness, which was quite apparent.” ’

31. nam Chariclen, etc: Tacitus, Ana. vi. 50, tells the same
story, remarhing that Charicles was not Tiberius' physician‚ but that
he was always at hand, so that the emperor might consult him ii he
wished.

Pege 40. 2. recumbere hortatus est: see lutrod. ΙΙ. 54, b( ).
v 4. singulos valere, etc: actitasset thern individaaiiy as they bacie
hira pacti-by.

5. iu actis senatus: see note on p. 4. 23.

6. strictim: cursoray.

8. pro contempto se habitum: that ae tuas treated asa aratoria.

9. non temere, etc: rtet inclined to be very boici except tabeo ia
a piace os sasetp.

11. villa Lucullana: a beautiful villa at Baiae, formerly the prop-
erty ci Lucullus, but at that time in the possession oi Tiberius.

12. aetatis annor cs. Tac. Atta. vi. 50 (37 nn), sic Tiberias
finivit, octavo et septrray'esrmo aetatis ariao,· also 51, arce rei Rontoaae
arbitrium tribas servae et aipirtii ohtiaait. Dio, lviii. 28, ismore
explicit: “He lived seveuty-seven years, four months, and niue
days.¹' ⁷

15. Gaio: Tiberius' successor, surnamed Caligula. ¹

16. in remissione fortuitae febris: fortuita febris is a sever that
results from natural causes, and not one induced by poison. Tacitus,

 

