maa 33] noras on amamus. 189

true aiter the death oi his mother, who, according to Tacitus, Ana n. 3
(29 mn), exercised a strong control over Tiberius; nor did Sejanus
dare to oppose her authority.

29. nepotum: the children oi Germanicus and Agrippina.

30. nurus: Agrippina.

Paga 33. 1. post cuins interitum, eta: cf. Tacitus, Ann. vi. 19
(23 an), arno states that he ordered put tc death indiscriminately
people oi every age and both sexes who were then in custody charged
with being attached to Sejanus.

4. commentario: this memoir is mentioned in Dom. 20, praeter
commentarios et acta Tiberi Caesaris nibal lectitabat. 2

7. alterum: Nero; killed, 31.1.n. alterum: Drusum killed,
3311). ¹

9. longum est: it acereta be redicas. Note the idiom where one
might expect the snbjunetive5 but ey. the English expression, ‘’Tis a
long story.²

12. religiosus: adies relietoses was a day oi ill omen, on which
no business oi importancc could he undertaken. It was so called
because originally dedicated to the gods oi the lower world. Aulus
Gellius, iv. 9. 5, says that many incorrectly call that kind oi a day
nefastae, a day on which court and assemblies could not be held, and
it is certainly so used occasionally by Latin authors. saee12'seen1s
to be here used with about the same meaning as religiosas, but inten-
sified3 render, accremari.

13. ineunte anno novo: kept as a festival by the Romans. On
the practice oi giving giits on this day, see note on p. 21. 12.

15. interdictum ne, etc: ecca nobee being] <lerneam to the Ticer,
the coctas of the condemned rcere sarronnded by nrneed men to beey)
bach the friends, acho mere nm allowed to eice the coenses braant, enen
rcben cast up by tbe ricer; cs. Tac. Aren. vi. 19. Dio, lviii. 16, says,
however⁷ that Tiberius at first not only allowed the friends ol Sejanus
to mourn him, but forbade any one to interiere with another's expres·
sion oi grief.

17. nemini delatorum, etc: credence mes einen ecery tesmmer. ·

19. obiectum est poetae, cto: the poet was Mamercus Scaurus,
and his accuser, Macr03 Tac. Aren. vi. 29. Dio, lviii. 24, says that
the tragedy was entitled Atreus, that Tiberius took the allusion to
himself, and ro'rced the author to commit suicide. Becker thinks that
he detects a lacuna in line 20, and suggests as a reading, in nnqoem'e
Aearrnenmcne prtrectpem, etc.

 

