rrae rs] noras ortv citrunius. atr

tur, etc. .· lte ts believed to love possessed os yreot a love for military
renorma assor· politicol jiectloot. These characterismos are illustrated
by the statement that immediately follows. So Velleius Paterculus,
ii. 97, who remarks that it was doubtful whether his genius was better
adapted to the arts ot war or peace. ’ ’

9. opima spolia: technically, the spoils taken troni the leader ot
the enemy hy the hand oi the Roman general. They were hung as an
offering in the templo ot Jupiter Feretrius. But three instanoes of
the attainment oi this glory are cited during the period of the king-
dom and republic-

10. tota acie insectatus: tto ltooe soayltt all over tlte battle-
,told -
= 11. pristinum . . . statum: ie. the republic.

18. filiis: te. Tiberius and Drusus. ’

20. Caesares: te. the princes cr heirs. After the time ot Hadrian

‘'rte pr'evailing meaning ot the word Caesar is that ot heir to the
empire.

23. prosa oratione: the classical expression is oratio solerte or
serato soleatos.

28. Iulio Antonio, etc: 9 ac.

29. Luguduni: see note on p. 51. 25. eo ipso die, etc: the
words pritaoot and tor· show that Suetonius does not mean that the
birth aud dedication occurred on the same day, but that this was
the anniversary oi the dedication. Render, ‘the first ot August, the
very day on which an altar aas first dedicated there to Augustus!
A ceremony was performed yearly at this altar even tc the time oi
Dio Cassius (liv. 32). χ

31. tratre maiore: known only hy his title Germanicus Caesar.
'He was entitled to the name Germanicus, apart homnis deeds in
Germana as the title had been conterred upon his father Drusus and
his descendants. See above, note on line l.

Page78. 6, post tutelam receptam: efter erttainlno his rrec-
y'orlty. This is a legal term and is used ol one who has become stri
luris and hence is no longer under a guardian's care. alieni
arbitrii: predicate genitive3 Introd. Il. 52, d. paedagogo: the
poedepopas acted as the tutor ot a young child, and as it grew older,
accompanied it to school as an attendant.

7. superiumentarium: ,on overseer of teasnslers; the word dces
not occur elsewhere3 see Introd. Π, §lt o (2). ex industria:

· the Ciceronian expression is de industrio. ’

 

