tta roras on amamus. [Ριιιι

came tobim in other ways as well, but it made his person ειιιιιειιιιιι,
aud pointed him out as tlte eliampion ot the people. By virtue of it
he could reto the action ol any magistrate ; but his actions could not
be vetoed, because he was nota tribune, though lie possessed atrib-
mre's power. So important was the tribuniciam power esteemed,
that its bestowal upon a person indicated that he was to be the suc-
cessor oi tlre reigning prince. It was granted for lit'e to the emperor,
and in imperial titles, the number oi years it had been held was
indicated.

15. dubium uxorisne taedio: cf. Tac. Arra. i. 53, spreveratque
(Ιιιιιιι) ιιι ιιιιιιιιιιιιι (Tiberiana) ιιιι ιιιιιι ιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιι Tiberio ιιιιιειι
ιιιι Rhodam abscederet. This was iu 6 u.c.; Tiberius was thirty-
six years old at the time.

17. assiduitatis fastidio: <assiduitatis is subjective genitive; ιι,
tlte saying, ‘ familiarity breeds contemth

19. Augusti liberis: the sons oi Agrippa and dulia, Gaius and
Lucius Caesar, adopted by Augustus.

21. exemplo M. Agrippae: cs. Αιιι. 66, ιιιιιι. ille [nt Αιιιιιιιι)
ιιι leri friyoris ιιιιιιιιιιιιι ιι ιιιιιιι Marcellus sibi aritescrretar, Mytile-
nas ιι, relictis orrtaibas, corztalissct.

22. ne.. ‚videretun such is tlre reason assi ned by Vell ii. 99,
ιιιιιι adaias caesarsaapsrssatartare ἰιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιι ιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιι ιιιιι
esserra ιιιιε,ι ιιι salpor su ts or ιιιι eterra ιι obs ιιιι ιιιιιιι, dis s-
sa ἰιιιιιιιιιιιιιιι rsa con istaista, coa ιιιιιιιιιιιιι ιι ab socer o ιι ιιιιι eodem t ιιιιιιι
ador alescendi a ιιιιιιιιιιιιιιι ιιιιιι citabo ιιιιιιιι

Paga 8. 2. ad occasionem maioris spei: ιι. ο11 tlte chance oi
being able to realize his expectation ot succeeding Augustus on the '
latter's death. On the clause quasi. . . ιοιιιιιιιιιιιιιιιι, see Introd. Π.
ξι, ι.

3. tautum nou adversis tempestatibus: ιιιιιι triade ιιι bat ιιιιιιι
abead.

6. appulisset: the technical word ior putting into port, as solvere
is tlie teclmical term for weigliing anclior ; ιιιιιιιιι is to be understood.

9. mutuaque cum Graeculis ιιι.. ιιιιιιιιιιιιιι ιιιιιι testes ιιιιιι
thoscGreelrar ιιιι tostas if ιιι ιιιιι ιιι ofili ιι ιιιιιι.ιιιιι Νοιιιιιι
diminutive Graeculi, often used hythe Roman writers tosignlty their
contempt ior the deg renerute Greeks of thetr day.

12. incivitate-t ιιι torm This use oltie word ιιιι as is, ior
lie mostpar post Aug us an ¹

18. a proximis aliter exceptumzt athey thought that he

 

