rna 102] ueras on ennumns. 273

teos the elevatiora of sools ond witich roettt to prone that tto one fetens
solip. Autem is adversative, contrasting continentem (theme) with
index (title). The Greek is explained, by a gloss iu the Mamm.
manuscript, as oscitatio stultorum.

. μετεωρίανι serpett'telness; used as a synonynr oi oblivionem ;
it strictly means wavering of the mind.

15. ἀβλεψίανε blindness ,¹ te. mental blindness, and is synonymous
with inconsiderantiam, ‘laek of reflection’ occisa Messalina,
ete: Tacitus account (Anno. xi. 38) ol Claudius' conductis some-
what different. The news ol her death was brought him while he

⁴ was leasting It was uot stated whether she had heen put to death or
had committed suicide, nor did Claudius ask, he called for his gobl et
and went on ieasting and drinking.

16. domina. forthewordcontnnsseenoteonp.18.7. Presum-
ahly dolatae was used in quite the same way when applied to awoman.
¹ 17. multos ex iis, etc. most of these executions were ordered by
Claudius when in astate oi terror aroused hy his freedmen or Messa-
lina. When he returned to his seuses he would call ior those whom
he had murdered, aud when cognitent ef the iaet, ,would be filled with
remorse and grief3 Dio, lx. 14.

’ 19. quasi morarentur: see Introd. 11. §3, od).

20 ducturus contra iant et e: the above· mentioned incidents are

exemplos of o etiaim the following ool his itacensidetnnt' tna For diet tn-
ons, seelntrod. ΙΙ. §ta

' 23 quaer parum reprehenderetur os tironphr weenot already
⁴ snffioieetlp eptehet sib The clause cited (trop ore rs the sub-

ieet toi repr rzdehet neret etti
28. nelov quis: te. not mindiul of what was hecorning in an emperor.

32. ollula τ a snoclr ; avulgar word.

Pege 102. 3. frigidam: senonem. Introd.II.§1,e.
5. ornatrixr ooiffense. ⁴
6. quidam sunt, eto: referring to the overhearing ‹reonduet oi his⁴
fireedmen
9. demereatur: obiice· ‚ arneaning not given the word before the
Augustanage.
12. Telegenius: the name oi scme'worthless individual.
“ 13. nedum: ottonianae.
16. hortante Τ. Livio· Livy, the famous historiau, who died in
the fourth year oi the reign oi Tiberius, at which time Claudius was
twenty-seven years old. >Sulpicio Flavo: otherwise unknown.

 

