mea aa] noras ou onrunrus. 253

. Roman citizenship. Dio, lx. 17, cites the case ol a Lycian by birth,
Roman by naturalization, being deprived oi his citmenship by Claudius, =
because oi his ignorance ol the Latin language.

16. in provincia: the king was probably visiting some Roman
province. Rabirio Postumo: the same who was defended by
Cicero, in an oration still extant.

17. Ptolemaeum: object oi secuto. This was Ptolemy, sumamed
Auletes. crediti servandi causa: to recavere locri.

18. maiestatis: sce note on p. 2. 23. motum: acts brought
against hiat

19. magna inquisitorum neglegentia, etc. .· ablative oi attendant
circumstance, they had been negligent in ascertaining the facts in
the cases. -

, 22. probantibus: the subject oi this ablativa absolute is the ante-

] cedent oi picibuscraaquc. Ι

26. ad Sigillaria: for the word, see noteonp. 80. 13. Itsignifies
. besides, as in the present passage, a mart in Rome, where these -
’ images, books, and works oi art were sold.

29. dolia: earthenware jars in which the must was poured, aud
allowed t0 ferment ior the space oi a year in the wine cellar. These
vessels were pitched to improve the ssavor oi the wine.

31. expeditionem unam: that to Britain, 43 nc, mentioned

below. ’ ἢ

32. decretis sibi, etc: Dio, lx. 8, tells us that Claudius' freed-
men persuaded him to accept an honorary triumph ior his achieve-
ments in Mauretania, although he had not only wcn no victory, but

did not even possess imperinm at the time the war was finished. For
, the oraoraeato triumphalia, see note on p. 7. 6.

, Paga 88. 1. maiestati: fcrhisdlyatty. The ablativo aiter the
comparative might have been used.
’ 2. unde adquireret: sc. decusas object. Britanniam is obJ'ect oi
-elcyit . =
3. ulli: dative oi agent with perfect participle; see Introd. II.
§a c (1).
, 4. post Divum Iulium: cs. Tac. A'yra‘c. 13: “Accordingly Julius
Caesar, the first Roman who entered Britain with an army, although
'he terrified the inhabitants by a successful engagement, and became
ι master ol the shore, may be considered rather to have transmitted the
discovery, than the possession oi the country, to posterity. It is cer-
tain that Gaius Caesar meditated an expedition into Britain; but his

 

