210 uorns ou currenni. [rior 51

tus made a fourth declinia of those whose rating was inferior( to act in
cases oi minor importance3 cs. Aup. 32: cd tres indicum <decurias
orientum addidit en miseriore ceneri, circe ducenariorum uocaretur iudi-
caretque de tectoribus siloamis. Cf. note on p. 27. 26.

3. sutfragia populo reddere: from this it would appear that Tibe-
rius had deprived the people ot the right ot voting ior their magistrates.
The words οι Tacitus Αιιιι. i. 15, implv the same thing, though he
is speaking particularly ol the election oi praetore. His statement
is that the electiori then passed lrom the contritio conturna to the
senate· The words ol Dio, lix. 9, are quite definite: “He (Caligula)
was praised lor having restored to the people the right ol electiori,
thus annulling what Tiberius had established in this matter.'’

5. sed et Iuliae Augustae: os zocll cs those nidulis Acipensis,
ic. Livia. suppresserat: cf. Tib. chap. 51. 7.

6. sine calumnia: ic. without thr'owing odium upon Tiberius for
haring suppressed them. repraesentata persolvit: lte pnidctonce.
ducentesimam: sc. purtem. This tar, at first oue per cent, was ’
instituted by Augustus to lurnish a pensiori fund ς ‘afflamina i. 78.
Tiberius afterward reduced it to oue-hali per cent (Anii. ii. ln). The ’
formation oi this lund is thus described in the Mon. '. Arruntanum,
chap. i: M. Lepido et L. Arruntio cos. (6 nn.) in cerarium inditore,

quod en niteo corisilio contentarum est, 'cn quo panonnia darentur ιιιιιιιι- ’

hiis, qni nicena αιιι platin stipendio elizerntssent HS. nrilliens et
scptirzpeuticns ec nranimento nico detuli.

9. reditum: this probably reiers to the income of the private purse
oi these sovereigns, as fructura centipolioruin refers to the public
revenues. ’

10. Antiocho Commageno: Commagene became a Roman pror·
ince in ii mn. ln 38 an. Caligula, a's indicated in the tert, restored - .
his paternal kingdom to Antiochus, surnamed Epiphanes. This king
afterward in the reign oi Nero, assisted the Romans in their ware
against the Parthians, aud against the Jews in the time oi Vespasiau.
Accused, in 72 an.. of conspiring with the Parthians, he was deprived
oi his kingdom, and thereaiter resided at Rome. sestertium
milies: renouando sesterces‚· about bhOOQOOO. confiscatum:
agreeiug with titilius used as an indeclinable noun. The meaning is,
that the sum had been paid into the Roman treasury' since Com-
magene had become a Roman province.

11. quoque note the position hencenotthe adverb but thecon- .
junctior and connective. ·

12. octoginta: sc scs er ια 800 odores orces aboutplilfflbbb

 

