Pisa aa] roras 011 ohannins, ’ 251

18. termula excidissent: had losi their scits. Foramla excidere
is equivalent to the phrase caasa cadere; see note on p. 63. 24.

20. in cognoscendo : Suetonius has been speaking oi the ordinary
administration oi justice (iurisdictio). Ia copposcerdo refers to
special J'udioial inquiries (eopratioaes) conducted hythe emperor.

24. cum decurias remm actu expungeret: on the meaning oi
decuriae, see note on p. ai. 26. Eaparrperei has the force oi recensere,
‘to clear off' or ‘revise' The expression reram astris means the
prosecution oi iudicial business3 cfi Nero, chap. ii. 18. It seems best
to take acta as a dative, defining the duties oi the decurias, ‘decuries
101 the prosecution 01 iudicia] business' ς ie. decuries oi jurors. Acta
is not to he taken as ablative ot separation, as Claudius would not be
apt to dismiss whole decuries 01 jurors. ,
, 25. dissimulata vacatione, etc: coricealiap the fact illul he mas
⁴ eaerapi hp ciriae of liis children. We may conjecture that this exemp-

⁴ tion was one oi the indueenrents to marriage offered by the Lea Ialia
= et Papia Poppaea, ior which see note on p. 21. 2'2.

26. responderat: had appeared.

27. alium interpellatum, eta: another jarer mas dcccsled hp liis
adversaries trith repard to a salt of his orca,¹ oa statiap that this
raama did rect properly coarebesore ansar's special trihrmal hal tras
ariarates sor ilie ordinary cereris io settle, ansar corapelled him to
plead his case immediately la the imperial presence, sapiae that ia a
matter terrclrlap his crea diaeresis, the ariao croada shem hoio* jasi a
jarer he mordd be ia a case periaiaiap io another. lt would appear
that the man was one oi the ¹jurorsserring in a special court, with
Caesar on the bench. While so serving (sach seems to be the idea

· conveyed by the prefix inter oi the ¹¹verb interpellatam), he was ashed
rhy his opponents in a suit to allow his own case tried before this

³ ρ01100111100111101 inquiry. ’ “

’ 32. dubia utrimque argumentorum fide: sor'the testimony oa

each side toas elatrastmorihp. ’ ’

1 Pagessss. 1. indicto: sc. ei, ie. femineas absentibus: raher
parties ic a salt sailed io appear ; ablative absolute.
Ἴ 2. seeundum: ia sacar of. According to Dio, lx. 28, the reason
that some failed to appear was the‘iear oi losing their cases. Claudius
then issued his edict that unless they appeared before a fixed day, he
would pass J'udgnrent against those absentpwhich 111 fact he did.
“ dabat: ie. gave the case to them. ,
’5. accin' . . . flagitavit: foi· infinitivo, see Introd. II. 54, b ( ).

 

