rien 45] noras ou CALIGULA. 203

contend with Tiberius lor the government, he changed completely,
though lie had acted well enough before.

4. novem liberos: Nero, Drusus, Tiberius, Gaius (who died in in-
iancy)‚ Gaius (afterward the emperor Caligula), Agrippina (afterward
mother ot Nero), Drusilla, Juiia (also named Livilla), and ason
whose name is not known. ¹

7. inaede Capitolinae Veneris: also known as the temple oi
Venus Erycina, dedicated alter the battle of Trasumene, 217 uc, by
Quintus Fabius Maximus.

8. Augustus in cubiculo suo positam: sc. effipiem; bulilu-
cristas kept atrociter pietro-e of the civitatulis bert-chambe. Note the
asyndeton where the clauses are adversative, arr idrom common in
Latin. quotiensque introiret: for the iterative subjuncdve, see .·
Introd. Π. 53, b (3). ‘

11. Neronem et Drusum: see Tib. chap. 54. 24.

14. pridie Kal. Sept: August 31, ta an. Dio, lin. t, alter
telling ol the two days' ceremouy conducted by Gaius at the dedi-
cationes a temple built in honor oi Augustus, remarks that the
ceremony ct the second day, which was the day heiore the Calends oi
September, was the more elaborate, because it was the birthday ol
Gaius as well.

16. Gn. Lentulus Gaetulicus: Gnaeus Lentulus, surnamed
Gaetulicus, consul, 26 nn, was commander οἱ the legIons in Upper
Germany. His great popularity with his soldiers archsed the jealousy
ot Caligula, whohad him putto death, 39 an. He was awriten ol
both prose and verse3 see note on p. 26. ll.

17. Plinius Secundus: this is Pliny the Younger. in Treveris:

in the country of the Treveri. The modern city ol Treves derives its
name from this tribe.

18. Ambitarvio: the locationolthis placeisnotknown. supra
Confluentes: the place was named Confluentes, because situated at
the confluence ol the Moselle and Rhine. The modern nameis Cob-
lentz. γ

20. versiculi: Introd, H. ᾗ 1, c. The diminutive indicates the
brevity aud popular character oi the quotation.

¹24. iam designati, etc. ε roas ecca then accareu of e priacc to be.

25. in actis: in the official gazette5 ior the word cccc, see note
on p. 4. 23. Anti: locative; see note on p. 23. 10. editum:
sc. Gallim. ¹ . Ι

27. ex urbe Herculi saera: Tibur3 cs. Any. 72, Tibur, ubi
ctiam lupertiacus Herculis terrarii persaepe ias dixit.

 

