111 noras ou urbanius. [rien 22

states that in Augustus’ time most oi the praetoriaus were kept in
the neighboriug towns, and but three cch'orts quartered in the city.
The site ol this stationary camp oi Sejanus, which, according to
Tacitus (Aura iv. 2), he established in the interest oi discipline and
efficiency‚ was outside the Servian wall and northeast of the city.
The place is clearly marked by 'a square projection oi the present
walls.

16. per hospitia: te. they had been billeted in scattered groups
throughout the city. continerentur : subjunctive iu relative clause
oi purpose. Ἴ

19. capita factionum et histriones: Tacitus, Ana iv, 14 (23
nu), represents the punishment as falling upon the whole body of
actors. Factioanrn refers tu the supportans and partisans of the dif-
ferent actors, winr are elsewhere called ν1211110123 histrionum. How
zealou's they were, may be interced from the statement oi Tacitus,
Araiai. 11, with regard to a decree passed forbidding senators tc pay
court to actors. Relcpctio sent the person so punished from Rome tc
dwell in a specified place. This was less severe than deportatio, which
uras accompanied by persona] restraint, loss ot citizenship, and con-
vfiscation ot property.

21. Pollentina plebs: the populace ot Pollentia, a city 01Ρί-
cenum. .

22. fimus: ie. the contege. primipilaris: oi the rank oi
principans, or centurion who originally commanded the right wing oi
the first maniple of triarii.

24. a cotti regno : the kingdom ci Cottius embraced the tract
now known as the canton oi Bianeonnais. The adjacent moun-
tains were named the Cottian Alps in honor oi the sovereign. His
kingdom became a Roman province in the time of Nero. Os. Strabo,
iv. l. 3. ,

27. decurionum: the members ci the senate (ordo) ci municiss
palities and colonies were called (tentationes. ’

28. asylorum: cs. Tacitus, Arra. iii. 60 (22 nu), who states
that the right ci asylum was being greatly abused in the Greek cities,
and the temples tlrrcnged with crowds or worthless slaves. Debtors,
too, and even those charged with capital crimes, took advantage ot
this custom to effect their escape.

zescyzieenis . . . ademit: this was in the year 25 an.
Tacitus, Anii. iv. 36, besides the cause mentioned here, states that ’
they had neglected tc perform certain ceremonias in honor of

Augustus.

 

