194 noras ou ananius. [risi 37

26. quod . . . esset: subjunctive hy attraction. noctu etiam
. . . viderent: Dio, lvii. 2, also mentions this peculiarity oi vision.
Viderunt is a subjunctive oi characteristic.

28. cervice rigida et obstipa : reith u eoitdraned stoop. As obsti-
pus simply means ‘bena’ the passage has been taken to mean,
‘iiralked with head thrown stiffly hack.' This would be the only
instance where obstipus is so used, while there are several passages in
which it has the opposite meaning, Moreover, the present interpreta-
tion is corroborated by Tacitus’ description. With regard to the word
ripario, it may he remarhed that when a person is much hent, it gives
the appearance oi stiffness to the neck, and that this is especially
notieeable when the head is turned. ‘

29. adducto iere vultu: pertel'ullp tuith α sterit expression oa bis
soce.

31. molli quadam gesticulatione: a sort of supple liltovelrtelti.
Note the use of the indefinite pronoun quitiam with attributive adjec-
tive to signily that the writer is in doubt just how to characterize the
peculiarity. ’

Pege 38, 1. ¹animadvertit Augustus, etc. .· Tacitus, Anu i 10,

states that Augustus exoused his fanlts to the senate, but did it for
the purpose oi calling attention to thern.

4. quamvls . . . rexerit: lntrod. Π. ξ 3, b (ὁ),

5. sine adiumento consiliove medloorum: es. Tae. Anu vi. le:
“He used to ridicule the medical profession, and those who aiter
thirty years oi age needed the advice of others to tell what was bene-
ficial or harmini ior their constitutions.⁷’

7. circa: equivalent to de; see Introd. Π, ᾗ 5( l.

10. numquam non: altrepa.

11. {uimine afflari negetur, ete: Pliny, NH. xxv. 135, also
mentions this superstition and that Tiberius wore the laurei as a pro-
tection. ⁴

13. artes liberales: the branchos os c liberal adulteriora These
comprised the study oi poetry, oratory, history, rhetorio, and philos-
. ophy. utriusque generis: te. ol Latin and Greek.

14. Corvinum Messalam: M. Valerius Messala Corvinus, who
fought on the republican side at Philippi. He was pardoned by the
triumvirs, and became Augustus' friend and served him well as a gen-
erat, He was besides an historiari, poet, grammartan, and orator.
None oi his works are extant.

16. morositate: rrroanerr'sm. The word refers to the stiliness oi

 

