224 noras on cantanti. [rien cr

Paga 61, 1. Ptolemaeum: see note on p. 56. 1.

4. munus: see note on p. 57. 16. spectacula: the arripirithea-
ir·e,· lit. ‘the scats‚’ or places allotted the spectatore, as below, line 9.

5. abollae: a mantle oi siout texture, oi which little is known,

6. quotiens. . . occurrerent: Introd. ΙΙ. ξ3, b (3). occipi-
tio: see note on p. 37Δ 23.

8. Colosseros: the word signifies large and bandsome, rahonis
and perhaps ἔρως.

9. spectaculis detractum: dropped srcrrr ibe sena· see above,
note on line 4.

10. Thraeci: to. a gladiator armed as a Thracian, with light cir-
cnlar buckler and short curved sword3 see note on p. 59, 4. hoplo-
macho: ὸπλομάχος; a gladiator clad in a complete snit oi mail, like
those who fought in the iront rank oi a GreoIan phalanx¹

12. vicatim: through the straete Irrtrod. ΙΙ. §L b.

14. cuius non commodis obtrectaret: ruhose merri lre did rrct
belitrle.

15. Nemorensi regi: the rex Nenrcrerrsis, or priest oi Diana oi
the forest, whose temple stood dceply buried in the woods at the ioot
oi the Alban mountain, held this office by reason ol his prowess. The
only way to gain the position was to slay the incumbent. Strabo, v,
3, 4, in the course oi his description, says: “ They appoint as priesta ι
fugitive, who has with his own band murdered the preceding pries't.
Apprehensive ol an attach, the priest is alniays arined with a sword‚
ready ior resistance.’' Before the grove in which the temple stood,
there is a deep lake oi considerable sine, now called the lake oi Nemi.
In this there have been discovered the remains oi two huge and mag-
nificently equipped galleys dating from the reign oi Caligula, probably
used in some way in the service oi this Diana.

17. essedario: a gladiator who §ought from the essedarii, or Keltic
war chariot.

21. populum, etc: the accusative is one oi exclamaticn; hence
we have triturantem agreeing with it, instead ol having a declarative
sentence with the verb in the infinitivo.

22. consecratis principibus . . 3 sibi: te. to princes dead and
deified and to himself still among thern (praesenti).

24, nepotatus sumptibus omnium: r'rr errroroyorrt reparatore
ire orrtdid cli reiro rcere noted for· prvrdipoiity. Nepotatus is genitive
case, cs. Seneca, Aci Heio. rrrotrerrr, 10: ‘⁵ Gaius Caesar, whom in my
opinion Nature produced in order to show what unlimited vice would
be capable oi when combined with unlimited power, dined one day at

 

