ilc noras ou sinamus. [reret 2

Drusus, a cognomen by which Caecus' oldest son was known5 see
Hermes, xxxvi. 2.

12. Claudius Pulcher. . . iniit: Cicero tells the story, NJ). ii. 3.
7; cs. Livy, Epit. nir. apud Siciliam: see Introd. II. ξ 5 ( ),

13. non pascentibus, etc: auspices taken irem the leeding oi
obickens were especially employed on military expeditione. ll the
ehielrens refused to eat the pals thrown to them by the pullarius, the
omens were uniavorable. Ii, cn the contrary, they ate with such
greed that some ci the iood fell from the mouth to the ground, it was
considered an especially favorable sign (tripudiant solistimum).

14. quasi: the word is here used to introduce the thought or
words oiClaudius. esse: from edo, ,

15. dictatorem dicerer: the technical expression ier naming a
dictator. >
17. viatorem: a servant who attended upon and executed the
eommands ol certain Roman magistrates. Ἴ When the magistrates did
not possess lictors, the uiatores took their place. li the magistrates
possessed lictors, the viatores were subordinate to them. The viatores
were generally oi lew birth, hence the insult to the publio in Pulcher's
aetion.

20. Matris deum: Cybele, whose earliest sanctuary and oldest
effigy, a stone that had ialleu from heaven, stood upon lllt> Dindymus
in Phrygia. The worship oi the Great hlother was introduced into
Rome in acl ne, at the command oi aSibylline oraele, and lor the
purpose oi driving Hannibal from Italy. The festival of the goddess
in April was called the Megalesia, and her attendants were the emas-
culated Galli. ,

21. si sibi, ete„- rJ ter chastitp tous beyond question, ie. if her
reputatiou ior cliastity was well deserved. The si clause explains the
itu, while deatum implies that her prayer was, that the ship might not
iollow unless she was clraste. This Claudia was probably a Vestal.
Ouid, Fasti, iv. 305 sep, in telling this story, says that her chastity
‘nias unjustly impugued. He puts this prayer into the mouth oi the
Vlrllln:

⁹ Supplicis, cirita, taue, peristriasuccoda (leolum,

Accipe sch certa cortdieioae preces.

Casta uepor. Si ta ductans, attenuisse ‚sciebam
Morte lucra poenus iudice uicto [lea.

Sed, si crilatu abest, tu nostroe pignera vitae
Re dubis, et tostas custo sequere tironus.

 

Alter Claudia had offered this prayer, the boat followed her.

