rrae ro] noras on nrnnarns. ⁴ 165

25, inlatum deinde Augusti testamentum : Suetonius, Arrp. 101,
gives an extended aocount oi this will. Tiberius and Livia are made
heirs. chacies to his relatives and friends, to the Roman people,
legions, praetorian soldiers and cohorts,areenu1nerated. The will
also states that many 01 the legacies leit to Angustus had been expended
by him in the interests 01 the state. It is forbidden that the two¹ J ulias,
his daughter and grand-daughter, be buried in his tomb. Cf. Dio, lvi.
32 ς Tacitus, Arta. i. 8, ‘⁶ At the first session 01 the senate, he allowed
nothing to be discussed but the funeral ceremonies ot Angustus.> The
will was brought in by the Vestals, and it was iouud that Tiberius and
Livia were appointed his heirs.'’

26. signatoribus . . . agnoscentibus: it was customary for the
witnesses both to sign and place their seals upon a will. The scal
and signatura were placed upon the outside of the document.

30. ex parte dimidia et sextante: >i ΔΓ ᾖ ;ξ; bcrcs ea besse

,might have been used to express ‘heir to two-thirds 01 the estate'
Since the Romans used a duodecimal system in expresslng 1110111100-
tions‚ the os being the unit, the shares into which an inheritance was
divided was expressed in tweliths; ap. heras ca· csse, ‘heir to the
whole'3 aasenticsc, ‘to one-halt'3 ea triente, ‘to one-third,' etc.

Page 16. 3. principatum: tlte crnpt'rc,⁴ lit. ‘the prlncipate‚' the
word used to signity the rule oi the princeps, which last title hest
expresses the position oi the emperor, as head of the government and
the people. The words inrpcrtrnn and z'rnpcrctor always retain some·
thing oi their technical military meaning, as in the passage from Taci-
tus cited next. quamvis . . . dubitasset: sec Introd. Π. §3,b
(ὅ). Of. Tacitus, Ana 1,·7, who states that on Angustus' death,

Tiberius, as their imperator, gave the watchword to the praetonans5
that armed guards surroundcd the palace and accompanied him into
the Forum and Curia; and that there were all other indicatione oi an
imperial'ccurt. In tact, that he showed hesitation in nothing, except
when addressing the senate. Velleius' view, ii. 124, is different. He
represents that there was a veritable contest between Tiberius and the
state, the latter endeavoring to prevail upon him to become its prinae,
and he struggling to remain in a private station. ¹

4. statione militum: this refers to the excubiae, or detail 01 prae-
torians, on guard at the palace. Roth’s text reads ct statione militam.
., Madvig seems correct in considering the ct of the manuscripts a repe-
tition ot the last syllable of the preceding verb.

6. impudentissimo mimo ι with the azost ocrescced capuana.

 

