moa ar] uerus ou arsamus 193

25. tantumnon: calyaot,r'.e. ‘alibut’ summam malorum:
ris errreaerrrsery.

27. quid scribam: Tacitus, Arra. vi. 6, quotes these same words
nd assigus them to a letter written in delence oi Cotta Messalina.

30. Roth's reading is : erclsllrrraut qrrr'dam praescisse llaec eura perl-
r'a saterrcrrrrrr ac rrraltc arcte, etc. As there is nothing to which llaec
an be easily referred, and as ac is wanting in the Memmian manu-
cript, Becker regards praescisse as a gloss.

sl. quandoque: la tlrre to corre.

Pege 37, 1. patriae appellationem, etc.:see note cup. ll. 25.* ¹

2. maiore dedecore : ablative ot attendant circumstance.

5. vel cum eit: sor example, rrllea lle says. This use af rel, im-
·lying that other examples might be cited, is common in colloquial
l atin.

a: mutari: the passive voice has a middlelorce.

12. huic mutatae. . . opinioni eripiat: arcy lalce rae flora yart,
barad you chfaayc year oplrrr'crr afrae. ι

’15. inconstantiam contrarii de me, etc. ζ· ficlcleaess la harlrry
harryed ycrrr opinioei as rae.

16. corpore luit, etc. : this description ol the personal appearance
ni Tiberius is the lullest extant. Velleius, ii. 94, thus characterizes him
11 early lite: ·'‘ A youth who had been trained in the noblest princi-

es, who was richiy endawed with high birth, beauty, dignity, valna
le knowledge, and exalted capacity, and who from the beginning gave
remise oi becoming the great man he is now, and who by his looks
troclaimed himself a prince.'' q The following was said ol him in his
ild age (Tac. Arra. iv. 57) : “ Some believethat in his old age he was
shamed ol his personal appearance, tor he was exceedingly slight,

ich a tall bent figure ; the top oi his head was hald and his lace un-
ightly by reason oi ulcerous sores, and disfigured by'patches oi
laster.”

17. latus ab umeris: broad r'rr the shoulders. The ablative in
his construction is probably ol the same origin as that explained in
note on p. 25. 6.

22. talitro: by saappr'ay lt arra ltls yiayers. The exact English
·quivalent, ‘fillip,¹ is rarely heard except in the dorm ‘flip'

23. pone occipitium: beliad· lit. ‘behind the back part oi the
read' summissiore: harrylrry rather lory. See Introd. Π, 54,

(2).

24. honesta: harrdsorae ,· this is apaetic use ol the word.

 

