rna eo] noras on craunms 257

states that a considerable part of the shore was out away, forming a
hay, the sides of which were built up with stone-work; piers were
carried out from theends of the above wall, and the entrance pro-
tected by an artificial island with its lighthouse.
24. ad introitum, eta: et the entrance tatere deep sottndt'nys toere
settled, a mole teos threan up for pretectt‘en. This mole is tlte arti-
fieial island of Dio’s account. profundo iam salo: an ablative of
attendant circumstance.
25. navem: this was the Great Eastern of antIquity, well de-
scribed by Pliny, Ν. H. xvi. 201: “lt is beyond all doubt that there
has been seen nothing on the sea more wonderful than this ship3
inattenuata of lentils formed the habaet, and its length toolr up the
. greater part of the left side of the harbon at Ostia. It was sunk at
ᾗ that place by order of the Emperor Claudius, three moles, each as
. high as a tower, being built upon it ς they were constructed of cement,

which the same¹vessel had conveyed from Puteoli. lt took the arms
Ϊ of four men to span the girth of the fir that formed the mast.'’

26. magnus 0beiiscus: this obelisk (called the preat to distinguish
it from two others erected by Augustus in Rome) was conveyed from
Alexandria to Rome in the vessel described above, and set up by
Gaius in his circus on the Vatican. See Pliny, N. H. xxxvi. 70.
From here it was removed by Pope Sextus V. to its present position
before the cathedral of st. Peter. .

28. Phari: seenote on p. 40. 30.

, 32. commenticia: nearly ttteettted.

Page 90. 1. Pompeiani theatri: dedicated hy Pompey, 55 nc.

' its stage was burned in the reign of Tiberius, who undertook the

’ restoration, but leit the dedication te Gaius3 see deity. chap. 21. 22.

’ 3. commisit: presided; iit. ‘gave the signal to begin.' apud
superiores aedes: there wasaternple in the upper part of the theatre
of Pompey, devoted to the serviee of Venus (ψ’. Tertullian, De spect.
'l0). There was also a temple of Victory (cs. Aul. Geli. x. 1. t), which
explains the plural cedes. Pliny, N. H. viii. 20, however, evidently
referring to this, calls it the temple oi Venas Victrix. Possibly it was
a temple with two shrines, one for Venus and ene for Victoria.
¹ 5. caveam: the ceree was' the body of the theatre devoted to the
seats (spectatula). ⁴

· 6. iecit et Saeculares: 47 nn, sixty-four years since the cele-
bration of these gemes hy Augustus, 17 n.c.; es. Tae. Aen. xi. 11.

7. quamvis . . . prodat: Introd. Π, §3, o(5).

 

