enarer] roras or caurauni. aia

28. paegniariis: the text is difficuit here. The reading is that oi
Roth (he gives the contracted torm paegniaris, ior pugnares, the read-
ing oi the Memmiau manuscript). Pepniaras is that oi the Medicean
ist and 3d. The lacuna before qaoque is to be filled by supplying
gladiatoribus, or some word oi similar> meaning. Paegnarins (Gr.
παίγνιον, ‘plaything⁷) means ‘pertaining to play! The passage
apparently means: ‘He turned wild beasts, all wasted away, against
wcrthless gladiators worn out by age, and pittetl against make-believe
gladiators householders, respectable, but noted tor some bodily
defert) .

Page 57. 1. carius: at a rather triph price.

2. custodiarum seriem recognoscens: renierrinp ilie prisonem
diaron up before hira ia a liae,· tor the word custodiae, see note on
p.34. 6. ’

3. elogio: the record oi the case, or ‘sentence'

4. acalvo ad calvum: te. indiscriminately. Dio,lirr.22, attrib-
utes the expressiori to Nero. “Once seeing a crowd ot captives, he
ordered them put to death, using the proverb, ‘from baldheadto bald-
headsm

5. duci: here used absolutely, as often, in the sense ot ‘lead to
execution? votum exegit: see note on p. 49. 14.

6. gladiatoriam operam promiserat: irad promised to fipiitasa
placitator.

9. ea de causa: ie. pro saliae ; on condition that the emperor be
restored to health. .

- 10. uerbenatum intulatumque: sc. eura· ie. crowned as a
'victinr with sacred boughs and fillets. vicos: sireers,· see note
naum ,

11. agerent: sc. paeri; imperative in indireot discourse. ex
aggere :. froia tha errbaairmeat. Probably troni the appar Tarquinii,
which took the piace ot the wall ot Servius Tullius in the northeastern
part oi the city, where the slope did not admit a wall, cs. Horace,
Ser. i. 8Δ 15. Some understand the expression to mean from the Tar-
peian rock, but there is nothing to justiiy such an interpretation.

12. stigmatum notis: by brandinp' thera atili hot troas. metalla:
see note on p. 26. 29.

13. munitiones viarum: see note on p. 19. 21. f ad bestias:
Dio, lin. 10, says that sometimes when criminals ior the purpose
were not forthcoming, Gaius would order mere spectators seized and
thrown tc the animals.

 

