riui ar] uorns ou sinuatus. ili

where always says decuriae iudicum. On the latter‚ ef. note on
p. 27. 26.

13. praesides ullos mutaverit: ior the word praesides, see
note 011 p. 20. 163 es. 'rac Aue. i. 80, who says that it was 'liberius’
custom to leave many officials in military and judicia] positions for iiie.

14. sine consularibus legatis: Hispania Tarraconensis and
Syria were imperial provinces governed by ieyaii consiiiei'es,'whose
official title, however, was leuati Appusii pre praetore. The official
title oi all governors' oi senatorial provinces was proconsules, whether
they were consulars or praeteriens. ’

16. Gallias: ie. transalpino Gaul. The uvore is in the plural be-
cause oi the iour divisione ; see note on p. 6. 30.

’ 17. neglexerit: he disreperrieei ibe saei thret. Note that the infini-
tives oceeeperi and castori are in object clauses. magno dedecore,
etc: ablative oi attendant circumstance. ,

18. ceterum secreti licentiam nanctus: bat haehae secured the
secedent thet priver-y preereuiees.

21. tiro: the word is here used literally oi a novice in military
affairs. lt is also figuratively applied to the young man who has just
put on his coquendis, his iormal introductlon into the Forum being
called tirocinium seri, and the day oi the ceremony dies taurinia- ef.
Nera chap. 7. 19.

23. Biberius: as ii irem the verb bibere. Caldius: asli from
celsio, airind oi hot punch. Mero: as ii from aierem, ‘unmixed
wine’ ’
¹ 24. princeps in. . . correctione: though Claudius assumed the
title oi censor, 48 nn, the emperors ordinarilyundertoolz the regulation ’
oi public morals under the title prudenti merum, the office referred to
here. ’

25. Pomponio Placen: the man-appointed hy Tiberius to eon-
duct the campaign against Rhascupolis. He‘is highly praised by
Velleius. He died, 34 an, while serving as procurator in Syria.
11. Pisone: probably the father ci the two Pises addressed by Horace
iu Epist. il. 3 (Ars Poetice).

27. alteri Syriam: eie. Flaccus. alteri praefecturam urbis:
vie. Piso. Praefectura reiers to the office oi the permanent imperial
official known as praefectus urbi, the emperor's representative in the
city.

28. codicillis: ise. in the documents which conferred the offices.

29. omnium horarum amicos: ie. they were friends ior all
occasions. '

 

