260 noras ou cadomus. [risa 91

in Oload. ohap. 30.24. foeda: as being the result ol his dissi-
pations; cf. Dio, lx. 2.

22. duodenarum: Dic, lx. 33, says that the number of ships was
fifty ou each side. Tacitus, Anu. xli. ab, gives the number oi oom-
batauts as nineteen thousand.

25. circa: see Introd. ll. ξ 5 (1). civilemque et militarem
morem: oirtl oud railttarp reparatione.

28. cooptandis: cooptare is strictly used ol a body choosing its
own members. The eolleges nominally did the septing, but the em-
peror’s nominatior was equivalent to an appointment.

30. quotiens . . . movisset: Introd. Il. 53, b (3).

32. obsecratio: o public prayer.

Page 92. 2. praeiret: the proper word to indicate the utterance
of a formula which others are to repeat3 ty‘. sacromentum praeire.
The taking ot such an cath is expressed by la verba irrora sum-
motaque, ata: te. that the holy rites might not be defiled by their
presence; of Horace, Od. iii. 1: l:

Odi profutura colpus at orreo!
Favete linquis.

3. rerum actum: on themeaning‚ see noteonp. 85:24. divisum
antea, erc: te. there had been but the summer aud winter sessions‚
interrupted by the spring and autumn vacations. The sessions prob-
ably ran into the autumn aud spring, as it is not likely that the whole
ot these seasons would be devoted to vacation. We might even
assume that the year was divided into halves, one winter and one
summer, tor the transaction ot legal business3 rs. this division ol the
year for military and y'udicial purposes in theprovinces‚ Cic. Aa. v, 142.
At any rate, Claudius now instituted one coutinucus sossium-and the
holidays at the beginning of ¹the year were emphasized to the exclusion
ol others; cf. C-'olbo 14, aad ercorzeassama Claudio certatorum, rte hiante
initioque onai od iudicandum evocarentur, aripuit. The ordinary
midsummer vacatiori (tf. Pliny, Epist. viii. 21. 2) was also observed
more or less strictly. Even as late as the time oi Marcus Aurelius, it
was not obligatory to appear iu court at that season (Dap. ii. 12. l).

4. fidei commissis: these are bequests lert for the heir to tulfil.
From the tert we should simply understand that the magistrates had
been given special J'urisdietion in the matter each year, but that they
now received regular J'urisdiction and that the power was extended to
the praesides ot provinces. As a matter ot lact, Augustus had given

 

