rien 11] nonus on nunnius. 159

29. aquila: Pliny, N. H. x. to, also states that there were no
eagles in Rhodes.

32. Thrasyllum, etc: Tac. Atto. vi. 21, tells the story inore in
detail ; cs. Dio, ln. ll.

Pago 11. 1. contubernio: the use oi this word to indicate the
obode where people live together, or ‘the household,⁷ is postAugusten ;
cs. Oclip. chop. to. 6. Another late meaning is that oi ‘intercourse'
with one's friends or teaohers.

2. tum maxime expertus est: he oc tltot occasion carenni tlrc
most strt'lttttp ploos os tlte slrt'll of Thrasyllus. Turn refers to the time
indicated above hy pridie cctam, etc. nave provisa: by tlte step
seen tc tho offittq; to bc construed with efferri, or possibly nn abln-
tive absolute denoting time, in which case construe with offlmocutenr.
Note the ioroe oi the prefix.

4. secretorum temere conscium: c ctctcperocs confidant, lit.
‘one rnshly intrusted with his semeis*

5. eo ipso momento: te. just before catching sight of the ship.

7, deducto . . . Druso: on the significance oi this act, see note
onp. 5. 19.

8. Carinis: tlte Carinae (²The lieels’), a lashionable quarter in
Rome, lying between the Coeliun oud Esquiline hilis. Esquilias:
construed like the name of ntown without apreposition. in hortos
Maecenatianos: these gardens were on the Esquiline Hill, and
· afterward connected with the imperial residence by a gallery 3 cs. Nero,
chop. 31. 2 enci note. '

10. privata officia: iunctione such es recitatione oi literary works3
betrothals, marriages, the pulting 011 oi the lopo civilis, otc. ,’ cf. Pliny,
Epist. iim. · Ι

12. Gaio et Lucio: see note on p. 7. 19. Gaius was treacher-
ously wounded before Atogiro insyria, while trecting ior its sumendor,
and died shortly afterward, 310. Lucius, while on his way to Spain,
fell ill at Massilia, and died there, ino. Tacitus' words, Aoo. i. 3,
ncors fcto propero vel novercae Liviae collectionum, show that there
were suspicions oi toul play in the case oi Gaius. adoptatur ab
Augusto, etc: cf. Acp. 65, tertium inpotem Apttppcto stctctqcc pri-
cipttcm Tiberium artoptactt insono lece curtato. V

14. coactus prius, eto: Dio, ir. 13, states that Augustus, as n
ohech upon the ambition oi Tiberius, compelled him to adopt Ger-
manicus, since he feared thot the former might grow overhecring and
plot treason.

 

