rna a] noras on crasans. 145

18. eo: sc. cognomine, and construe with praeditis.

20. quo significatur, eta: ιγ, Aul¹ Geli, xiii. 23: “Nerio is a
word oi Sabine origin, signiiying mantiness and bravery. The
Claudii, we are told, are 04 Sabine crescent, aud hence they give the
name Nero to those of their line distinguished forbravery.” The
root 04 the word Nero is the same as in the Greek ἀνήρ.

23. setius ι «a euphemistic way oi saying that barm was donc the
state. Os. the expressior. secas dc aliquo dicere, ‘to speak ill 04 any
one.¹

Page2r¹ 1. Appius. . dissuasit: the incident referred tc
occurred after the defeat oi the Romans at Heraclea, 280 nc, by
Pyrrhus, who then sent proposals of peace to Rome. The blind
Appius, who was now old and feeble, had himself carried into the
senate, and spcke so effectively against the proposed peace that
the senate rejected the kiug's offer. Appius¹ speech was stili extant
iu the time 04 Cicero, who, in speaking 04 him, Dc Scaea. 6, quotes
these lines, which Ennius represents the old hero as addressing to the
senate ou the occasion: ’

tgna cobis arentes, rectae qaae itare solebant
Antehac, deviantis sesa flexere ciat 9

2. iniri: icr the infinitive, see lutrod. ΙΙ. 54, b (1). Glau-
dtus . . . expulit: 264 nc, corroborated by Veli. Pat. ii. 38. 2.

4. Tib. Nero . . . oppressit: 207 s.c.; cs. Livy, xxvii. 40-49,

6. Annibali: another spelling icr Hannibali.

7. contra claudius . . . asserere conatus: 449 nc. (tradi-
ional chronology). For the story 04 Virginis, see Livy, 444. 44-48.
legibus scribendis: dative of purpose. This gerundivc construction
often employed with 'names of officials, to designate their duties.

9. secedendi rursus: ie. the second secession of the plebs, the
r'rst having taken place in 494 sc. The story of Virginia, whether
rr notit ever had its origln in fact, was employed as a picturesque
xplanation 04 the action 04 the plebeians. They probably seceded
recause they distrusted the sincerity of the patricians' promises
freform. ,

10. statua . . . posita, etc. .· nothing further is known oi the occur-
rences referred to in this sentence. Forsan Appi was a village on the
ppian Way southeast ci Rome Mommsen believes that the person
eierred tc in the passage must have been Appius Caecus, and not
*laudius Drusus, whoever this was⁴ Max lhm suggests Bassus ior

 

