ries 64] nores on caticum. 227

9. subiecit: be hroayht strider· the creationeer's tancmer.

14. nec licendi finem iactum: aad thal the baldina did azot
cease; licendi from licecr.

15. sestertium nonagies: about thehilim. Treatnoaayiesasan
indeclinable noun in the ablative. See note on p. 25. 27. Sestertitr,
the reading oi Roth, is a conjecture ot Ernesti. ’

19. quidquid instrumenti veteris aulae: all the paraphernalia
os theold autern te. oi the court ci Augustus and Tiberius. To en-
hanee the valne ot these articles as they vvere offered ior sale, Gaius
would remark (Dio lin. 21): “This article belonged to my father3
this to my mother; this to my grandiathem this to my great-granti-
father. Antony used this in Egypt; this was given Augustus ior a
victory won.'⁷

21. pistrinensibus iumentis z te. the horses and mules employed
by the millers to turn the millstones. The millers were bakers as
well, ior the tvo trades were combined in Rome.

22. saepe: Becker suspects this word oi being a gloss3 it not a
gloss7 he would substitute paene.

24. causa caderent : lost their cases. Oaasa is ablative oi sepa-
ration. cui instrumento distrahendo : in order· to dispose os the
paraphernalia, he errrployed every leina os decentiae arrd entlcelneat.
Distrahere strictly means ‘to sell precamen!

29. quoti . . . privetis copiam taceret: bedarese he raas alleca
tna private citizens to acquire, etc.

’ 29. ducenta sestertia: about eleana. ’
v 30. vocatoribus: the slaves who delivered Caesar's invitations.
interponeretur: ntiyht secere a place at.

32. in auctione: i. e. at the sale oi the· above-mentioned articles.

Pege 64. 1. ducentis milibue: used instead oi (iaceatis sester-
tiis (see note 011 p. 63. 29) to avoid ambiguity. The latter might
mean 200 sesterces apiece instead ot edendo sesterces.

3. vectigalia nova ε Dio, lix. 28, says that he.vvill pass over in
silence the sales, the dives, the lavvsrdts, the workinen and slaves, all
employed to swell the income of Gaius, bnt he cannot sorbeat men-
tioning the brothel established on the Pelatine ior the same purpose.

8. certum statumque: sc. tribulam.

9. ubicumque conceptis: before zahateae'r cocart. quadra-
gesima: sc. pars.

10. composuisse vel donasse: settle their· cases or abendon them.
Denare means, literally‚ to make a gin ot the case to the adversary.

 

