rice aa] uerus cu caricum. 213

They received the name irom Maenius, consul in 338 r.c.; cf. the
word malasard, which is derived from the name oi a Freuch architem,
Mariscae.

23. Baiarum: this charming spot, on the hay of Naples, was
famous ior its magnificent country villas. Puteoli ι modern Poaza-
oli,⁸ about two miles from Baiae, famous as a summer rescit audior
its excellent harbor protected by a mole (avoles puteolanae).

24. trium milium: it will he remembered that a Roman mile is
about 144 yards shorter than an English mile.

27. superiectoque aggere : though not so stated, the two lines oi
boats were probably connected by plarrks resting upon them. On
these planks and the boare the embankmeut was thrown up, forming
a road. ’

28. in Appiae Viae formam: see note on p. 39. 15. This road,
passing close to Baiae and Puteoli, would naturally be the one with
which the work was compared

29. ultro citro: baca arrd forth ,¹ asyndeton.

30. quercea corona: also called corona civica ‚¹ see note on p.
ri. 26.v ererce'c was Roth’s conjecture ior qnicrcz'ca ol the blemm.
manuscript. It has since been found to be the reading oi athirteenth-
ce‘irtury parchment manuscript in the British Museum. caetra:
a small round Spanish shield oi hide, like the terget oi the Scottish
Highlanders.

32. curriculo biiugi: riding in a charior drawn by two horses.
prae se terens: ecbibiriay. ’

Page‘53. 2. essedis: the assedam (sometimes assecla, ce) was
originally a lleltic war ehariot. Being a light, convenient, two-
wheeled vehicla, the Romans adopted it with some modificatione, and
used it ior travelling and ior purposes oi pleasme. cohorte:
ceticae. .

4. aliquanto: de. considerably. - The strait, where bridged, was
about au English mile across. This was the bridge which Xerxes
built in 481 rao, preparatory to invading Greece.

7.. sed avum meum: one oi the rare personal allusious iu sue-
tonius. seerntrodr ³

8. interioribus aulicis : corrfideaticl rorarios.

9. quod . . . affirmasset: this eausal clause following proditam
hasasubstantiveiorce. Thrasyllus: see note on p. 10. 32. ,

10. verum nepotem: Tiberius, Drusus’ own child.

12. discursurum: rrccch‘oat.

 

