Plan 42] uorus ou caricum. 199

25. heredesea: cf. Cultu. chap. 14. 3. aequis partibas:
ablative absolute.

26. Gaium . . . Druso: see cinomanna. substituitque
in vicem: according to the prevision oi the will, should either dic,
the other iras to succeed. Tiberius’ claim was disregarded hy Gaius.

27. legata plerisque: according to Dio, lix. 2, these were all pald
hy Caligula.

29. vicorum magistris: aiter the reorganizationoi the city hy
Augustus, there were iour capistri cicorum tc each cicae. The cici
in a city were either streets or the blocks bounded hy streets, or, as
here, suh-divisions oi the raciones. According tc Pliny, N. Η. iii. 66,
there were two hundred aad sixty-five oi these subdivisions in the time
olaugusms,

cacianus-murarios, 37-41AD.

Sources: Suetonius. Dio Cassius, lix. Jesephus, Aut. Jua xviii.
6, lO; rix. l, 5. Philo, in Flaccum aud Legat. ad dcirca.

The accession oi Gaius, son oi Germanicus, was hailed with delight.
The informers were suppressed and electiou oi magistrates was restored
to the assemhlies. These and other reiorms were short-lived, how-
ever, ier Gaius soon reverted to the system oi liberius, though lacking
Tiberius* ability as au administrator. Great power, moreover, turned
his weak head. He claimed divine honcrs, undertook ridiculous eam-
paigns, and squaudered the resources oi the empire in wild schemes.
The ancient authorities are one in drawing the portrait oi a madman,
aud their peges are filled with the accounts oi his insane antias. The
only important constitutioual change was the formation oi a fiith
decury oi jurors.

Paga 42. 5. Germanicus: see note on p. 23. 20, and steuuna,
p. 142. , Drusi: the elder Drusus, brother oi Tiberius. minoris
Antoniae: daughter oi Mark Antony and Octavia, sister oi Augustus.

6. adoptatus: according to Tacitus, Ana iv. 57, Augustus was
prevailed upon by his wife to adopt Tiberius, who in his turn was com·
pelled to adopt Germanicus. Of. Dic, lv. 13: “Augustus, however,
adopted Tiberius, . . . but tearing that he might aspire to power,
compelled him tc adopt Germanicus, sou oi his brother Drusus, and
that, too, notwithstanding the iact that Tiberius had a son oi his
own.'’ quinquennio ante quam: twenty-five was the minimum
age; sauciemur. 10.

 

