siaa es] uorns oneraturos. ’ 269

9. amplius: evaph'as without ericam,¹ for the origin of the construo-
ti0n‚ see Appeadie to Beanett's Lat. Grata 334.

14. ultro: te. without waiting for orders.

15. excesserit: potential subJunetive. Tacitus, however, vouehes

ior the trutli oi the story.
· 17. inductus, quasi de industria simularentur,' ete, : ivvcltteed to
<lo a, beraeae the vtterv'iepe wcts priaposely being seiguel, es people
saal, ete. The subJ'ect oi senata-eaeo· is taraciae understood. 011
the clause actast . . . sanititatem: see Introd. Π, §3‚ b (4).

18. transferendum: tetothenew husband. quod imminere
ipsi, ete: ie. which threatened hiru (Claudius) as the husband of
Messalina.

20. nou defuit ei¹ verum stanti, ete. : teas not letitiae ia hita, bat
this aas the ease only tehen he was standing still or sitente, or espe-
etatty tehen sleepa'ay. When walking‚ or engaged in any occupatiori,
he vvas awkward and laeked dignity. The meaningless manuscript

- reading is, raon defait et veterana stata vel sedenti. Roth givesaea
<leserit ael stanti bel sedenti, marking a lacuna aiter defait. The
reading of the text is the plausible oonJ'eeture of Oudendorp and
Bentley. ’

21. prolixo nee exili, ete: teil, bat aa slight, arith a pleasivty
eapresst'oa atad beeomtap telate heir,· his aeoli tuesthiclr. In prose,
raaces, the plural, is ordinarily employed, though there are numer-
ous exceptione to this rule.

25. multa dehonestabant: Dio, lx, 2, mentions his trembling

. hands and head and his stammering tangue. Juvenal, vi. 623, ern-
phasizes the spumante ricta.

26. risus indecens, eta: tiaseemly ia tis lattyhter, etrite clispest
iay ia his toralia sor he tlteafoemed at the :tabath aad trieltled at the
bose. turpior: agrees with tra.

29. vel maxime tremulum: eaeeecliaply treatelous, indeed ‚· ael
is intensive.

30. stomachi dolore: caused probably hy indigestion. In Latin
the vvord stomachus is not applied to the abdomen (venter).

‘s Pege 98. 2, sesceni: note the soree oi the distributive, ‘on each
occasion) ,

6. more vetere: this custom is explained by Tae. Arta. xiii. 16,
raes habebatur priaeipara liberassem ceteris idem aetatis trabilibus
sedentes vesci,· ta aspecta propinquarem, propria et parciore taease.
In the passage qui more vetere, eta, the relative is lacking iu the

 

