1111115] uorns 011 uano, , 289

fire to Rome. See the whole oi 'lacibus' famous passage, Arva. xv. 44.
Oi the tortura meteri out to them. he relates that they were covered
. with the skins oi wild beasts and then torn to pisces hy dogs; many
were covered with infiammable materials and bmned, to serve as torches
to light up Nero¹s garden where he was giving circensian games.

7. novae ac maleficae: strcape read benefeci. lllcleficee may con-
vey the idea that somery was practised in their rites.

8. quadrigariorum lusus: it would appear that the chariotcers,
aiter the races, were in the habit oi amusing and enriching themselves
in the way stated. By tacit permission ol long standing (licentio ia-
* ceteruia), they claimed this privilege as a right (ius).

10. pantomimorum factiones: according to Tac. 111111. xiii. 25,
Nero himself took delight in inciting the opposing sections against
each other. Unable to quell the storm he had raised, he was forced to
hanish the actors and restore the military guard to the theaire. cum

” ipsis: ie. the actors.

11. tabulae: documentis. Α number oi tabulae relatingto-busi-
ness transactions have been discovered at Pompeii. nisi pertusae,
etc: the outer edge oi the tablet was piereed with heles, through
which a string was passed three times and the seal fixed upon this
triple cord.

13. cerae: inasmuch as the leaves oi the tablets were covered with

» wax, the word cero, as here, citen signifies ‘page’

14. signaturis: ie. the witnesses. ¹

15. scriptor: tlte scribe.

16. pro patrociniis: fer ettoraey's ceruices. The lea Cilicia,
204 no, iorhade giving or receiving iees ior pleading cases. This
law became obsoleta but Augustus again eniorced it. claudius tired
amaximum iee oi 10000 sesterces. Tacitus, Aua. nl. 5, statesthat the
former regulation oi the lec 101111νί11 was eniorced at the beginning ci
Nero’s reign. From the present passage, it appears that Nero aiter-
ward fixed the iees oi advocates at what he deemed just amounts.

17. pro subselliis: the secbsellic were seats arranged around the
tribunal‘oi the praetor, ior the convenience oi the parties in a suit.
According to Nero's regulation‚ the parties oi a suit would not be
obliged to pay ior them.

18. rerum actu: ia respectio jttdiciel procedure; cf. note on p.
85. 24. ab aerario causae, etc: ie. those having cases with the
treasury department should not heve them tried before the praeiects
oi the treasury, but before reciperatores in the iorum. Madvig would
striks out ceticae, making subsellia the subiect oi transferrentur, ex-

 

