168 noras on rreanrns. [mee n ’

the hesperiarumve was an open court before thet s tructnre, formed by the
two sni srunning out beyond he sapade The ces aba cria was ire
quently adorned with statues, arms, and trophies. ln the Mera. Ancy-
raanm, chap. 34, Augustus states that the corono civica was placed
abore his door.

29. nec amplius quam mox tres: no litore ilica three usterronrcl ,·
ie. three afterbecoming emperor. He hadheld two previously. For
the force ol iiior, see note on p. 15. 21. unum paucis diebus:'
with Germanicus, lor.1>.; cs. Tac. Aren. ii. 53.

30. alterum tribue mensibus: his fourth consulship, 21 aa, bis
colleagne being Drusus3 cf. Tac. Arte. iii. 31. Under the empire the
term of office ol the consul was shortened. This diminished the power
oi the office, and yet allowed the emperor to bestow it as a mark ol
favor upon more individuale than was possible under the old system. ,
Until Nero's death the term was usually six months. Afternthat time,
two or four months ordinariiy. The names of the first pair oi consuls
for a given year (consules culinarii) were used to indicate tbe year.
The consuls sollcining in the same year were known as coitsules suffecti. ¹
tertium absens: cta. when in retirement at Capreae. His colleagne
was Sejanus. usque in Idus Maias: cie. from January lst until
May lbth. On the preposition in, see Introd. ΙΙ. ξ 5 (i). ’

Page 18. 2. consularem: this was Q. Haterius. On Tiberins’
reason icr being angry with him, see note on p. 16. 10. In the same
passage, Tacitus relates that Haterius came to the palace to appease
Tiberius. He threw himself at Tiberius' leet as be was walking by.
The emperor tripped in some way, in consequence ol which Haterius
barely escaped being killed by the guards.

4. siquid. . . diceretur: see Introd. Π. ξ3, h (3).

5. in continua oratione: in c set speech ,· as contrasted with
conversation (serr mro)

6. continuo: fortbw 4

,7. dominus: nom the first there wasatendenoy tc call the em ’
peror docrinas a title that indicated the respect ielt by an inferior lor
a superior. It hardly became a regular lorm ol address until the time
oi Septimius Severus. On the varicus uses cl the term consult Hardy,
Prteys Cor-respoudeace trith Trajan, p. 78.

8. contumeliae causa: ie. Tiberius' reproot implied that the
man had intended tc insuit him by addressing him as cleriricos,

9. auctore: implying that the man was there at the instigationes
Tiberius, rather than that hebed advised (suasor) him to come. .

 

