aad horas ou ornicum. [rica ca

14. vicies et septies milies: d,700,eoo,ooo sesterces ,⁴ approxi-
mately §idddddddd Dio, lix. 2Υ states that some give the amount
spent as 3‚3oo,ooo,ooo sesterces. non toto vertente anno: ia less
llice a year. Dio, lix, 2, says that he had not a iarthing leit in niue
months. ,

16. exhaustus igitur, etc: cf. Dte, llx. 4, “As he sqirandered his
money in the most lavlsh fashion, so he collected it hy the hasest
methods.”

17. exquisitissimo: very cerintayly coriceived.

22. diplomata : the papers conferring citizenship.

23. ut vetera et obsoleta deflebat: lie used to deplere the suci
thot they were old ovid out ofdote.

24, postea: ie. aiter the statement oi their rating.

27. ut ingrata: os displayiay illyrctitude. item ceterorum,
etc: hc also destroyed, os aidi ulid void, theudis of all yeople lolio
were said, by orry ode colronasocoer, to heve intended oa dieii· death to ⁴
icccc Caesar their heir. df. Dio, lix. 15, where he says that Gaius
compelled all who had previously signified their intention oi leaving
legacies tc Tiberius, to maire over the same to himself.

29. quo metu: according to the Latin idiom‚ qao agrees with
laetam it refers logically, however, to the nidlification ol the wills
mentioned aliove.

32. venenatas matteas : poisoned delicacies.

Pege 63. 1. cognoscebat autem, etc. .· iiiorcover, he used to pre-
side dt saca cases, first ,deinc the corrodat thet he iliteadcd to rcise at
thel particular sittiay, arrd assoon cs this suia eoas iliade im, lectiae
thebeuch.

3. excitabatur: the passive has here the force oi the middle voice.
In the active it means ‘call froin one‘s seat’ Note the asyndeton,
terralo. . . coafecto. Madvig believes that et has fallen out aiter the
last syllable oi consideret and would supply it. The asyndeton does
not, however, seem harsh. ne paululum quidem ι aot in the least.

4. morae: to he construed as genitive with petieras.

6, Caesonia: see note on p. 60. 12.

7. meridiaret: it was a common custom with the Romans, as
with the modern Italians, to take a midday nap.

8. reliquias omnium spectaculorum: Suetonius not only means·
the equiparent, hut the gladiatore who were leit over as well. This is
clearly indicated by Dic, liri 14, ¹² He sold at an exorbitant price the ’
gladiatore who were left over.'’

 

