rma 17] uorus ou rmuurns. 167

were given hythe plebeian aediles November 4th to llth. Tiberius'
birthday was November 163 see note cu p. 4. 21.

18. adiectione: te. in addition to those that would ordinarily run
at these gamos.

19. flaminea z floraco was the name applied to any Roman priest
who was devoted to the service of one particular deity. The most
important was the flamen Dialia, or priest of Jove. After the deifi-

'cation of the emperors, flamens were appointed to offer sacrifices to
them. The name was probably derived from flare, ‘to blow up,' te.
afire.

20. nisi permittente se: see Introd. 11. § 6, b ( ).

21. ne . . . poneretur: that they should aot be placed, etc.,· an
example of the stipulative subjunctive. See note on p. 10. 8.

22. inter ornamenta: the ornamento oi atemple consisted of
those obiects wluch were consecrated to the temple by the faithful and
gradually accumulated init. Macrobius, Sat. iii. ll. 6, enumeratas
them thus z orruuucatu cero saar clupei, coronae, ct uratusaoru' doctor-tu.

23. in acta sua iuraretur: this oath to support the civil acts of
the emperor—not to be confused with the oath of allegiance (scorc-
utcatuut; ta uerba tru=are)-is well explained by Dio, lvii. 8: ‘⁴ The
custom which has always been observed on the first of J anuury in the
case ot Augustus, and all the following emperors, whose conduct has
been approved, of having all citizens take an oatlr to support what
these emperors had done, and were to do hereafter, Tiberius did not*
allow in his own case, though lre had himself talen such an' oath iu
favor of Augustus and had administered it to others.'' Of. Tacitus
i. 72, who says that Tiberius did not allow any one to swear ta actu
suc, for the higher one arose, he asserted, the more insecure became

his position. ’

” 24. September Tiberius, etc: according to Dio, lvii. 18, Tibe-
rius aslred the subservient senators what they would do, should there
be thirteen Caesars.

25. cognomenque patris patriae: tlre title had been granted to
tulius Caesar and Augustus. Tiberius persistently refused it in the
early part oi his reign, as did Nero, Vespasian, aud Hadrian. After-
ward it became a regular part of the imperial title.

26. civicam in vestibulo coronam : the civic crown was of oak
leaves, and was granted for saving tlre life of a citizen. Augustus had
received this marli of honor, not for any individualcase, but as the
perpetual preserver of the citizens. Note the position of tlre phrase ic
vestibulo, and see Introd, ΙΙ, §5 (2). In the palaces oi the nobles,

 

