172 Ἴ noras on risnsrus. [ΡΜ 21

Tacitus,¹ Anu. iii. 52, in speaking of the extravagance of the time, uses
the word paneae in the sense of ‘gluttony,' showing that these places
had become notorious.

8. parsimoniam: srupol'tty. The word is regularly used in a
good sense.

9, sollemnibus: forotul.

11. omnia eadem habere, etc: thet theports tested us good us
theothole. ι ’

12. cotidiana oscula : like the French and Italians oi to-day, the
Roman men used to embrace and hiss on meeting. Pliny, N. H.
xxvi. 3, states that a loathsome disease of the face spread among the
nobles in the reign of Tiberius, and that the scourge was due to this
practice. strenarum: strena, a sign or omen, carne to have the
meaning, ‘new year's gifts' given for the sake of the omen; cs. Freuch
etruriae Dio, lvii. 8, states that the reason for Tiberius’ absence
from the city on the first of January was that he wished men to he
uudisturbed by his presence at that seasou, and not to feel obliged
to bestow gifts upon him. Note the cynical turn given the thought
hythe use of the word eorittaerciunt, as though this practice were
nothing hut one of giving for value received.

13. quadruplam: te. of fouriold the velue of the gift given him.

14. > offensus interpellari: see Introd. II. 54, h ( ).

15. potestatem sui: te. the opportunity of maeting him and ex'-
changing gifts.

16. ultra non tulit: did aot stidore 'tisanam that is, the inter-
ruptions.

19. iurisiurandi gratiam feeit, uxorem, etc: eacused flora his
ooth aad allotted to dismiss. For construction of (ltilittteret, cf.
Introd. Π, §d h( l. ’

22, nt. . . exsolverentur: thattheymight hereleasedfrotn‘their
obligations etad stocos of oratioue, aad thus escape tlte penalty of the
luins. The laws on marriage and the relations of the sexes consisted
of a series of enactments. These were amplified in the reign of Augus-
tus during the consulship of Μ, Papius Mutilus and Q. Poppaeus
Secundus, ilua, and hence the new euactmeut was called called les
Papia Poppaea A woman convicted of adultery might losa one-half
her dowry, one-third of her property, aud be banished. According to
Tacitus, ir, 85, if a woman made an open profession of prostitution
before the aediles (licentium stupri apud aecliles arriperetur) she was
freed from the danger of suffering the penalties imposed by law.
This is what Suetonius means. ’

 

