280 , noras cn nano. [mea 108

11. emptorem familiae pecuniaeque: the testamentary θωρακίων,
The expression arose from a fiction oi Roman law, wherehy the tes-
tator appeared to sell to the eliditor that property which, aiter the
testator's death, the ereptor would dispose ci according to the inten⁴
tions oi the deceased. Familiae is here, as often in legal phraseol·
ogy, used to signiiy the property.

14. ornamentis triumphalibus: see note on p. 7. 6.

15. ex Germanico bello: in speaking oi the campaign, Tacitus,
Ana iv. ll (25 aa), states that Domitius crossed the Elbe and pene
trated Germany iarther than any oi his predecessore, ior which he
received the arrianieaia trinrraihaiia.

16. L. Plancum: this Plancus and his colleague, Paulus Aemilius
Lepidus, were the last private citizens to hold the office oi censor,
3 n.c.; see note on p. 86. 30. ¹

22. ex Antonia maiore: Tacitus, iv. 44, makes this woman An-
tonia the younger, evidently coniusing her with her sister. Dio,
xlviii. 54, makes her the wite oi Nerc’s grandfather. In such mat
ters it is safer to iollow Suetonius, who must have been familiar with
the genealogy oi the royal familias.

25. c. Caesaris: son oi Agrippa and J ulia, adopted by Augustus.

26. cohorte: from the military use oi the word, meaning prae-
torian cohort or generals bodyguard, it cameto mean retinue oi
friends. The distinction between the military guard aud the retinue
oi friends is clearly seen in Galia. chap. io. 2.

27. in Viae Appiae vico : at a vilicae ea tire Appiae Way.

30. argentarios: the word usually significa, ‘bankerff Here it
seems to mean ‘silversmith' The two occupations were probably
combined. ”

32. palmarum: figurativeiy, ‘victorias' He cheated themoi the
prizes promised. cb haec et sororis ioco: crotonienses· this, aeid .
beccense es the sinas os ridicule directed apairzsr hini by his sister.
Iaca is the conjecture oi Sabellicus, ior laea oi the manuscripts. ¹

Page'lte. 1. lactionum: see note on p. 71. 28. repraesen-
tanda: ior the meaning oi repraesentare, see note on p. 88. 26.

2. maiestatis quoque et adulteriorum: according to Tacitus,
Ana vi. 47, he, with others, was connected by adulterans intercourse,
with Albucilla. She was charged with disloyalty, aud Domitius
implicated, 37 nn.

5. Pyrgis: Pyrgi, a town ol Etruria, now San Severo. sub-
lato iilic: hanina a soii. Seiblcto, iram teilo, ‘to pick up.' This

 

