246 acras oa ausanius. [aaa ai

26. Caesaris: ie. Caligula.

27. honore: the consulship.

28. extraneo vel etiam, cta: ablativa absolute, cantianella ciis-
tarbcd by tlte different chawnes hrainein accinat laiac, aiot oitly dy cat-
saleis, bat even by lais ozan cloiiccstics.

30. Lepidi et Gaetulici coniuratio: these were Aemilius Lepi-
dus, mentioued in Calin, chap, 24, and Cn. Lentulus Gaetulicus yils,·
see note on p. 45. 16. Dio, lix. 22, hints at a conspiracy on the part oi
Gaetulicus in 39 aa: “Gaius ordered Lentulus Gaetulicus put to
death; he was aaran ot distinction and had been governor oi Ger-
many lor teu years. The charge was that he had endeavored to curry
favor with the army.³' Dio theu goes on to say that Lepidus, who
had been ou very intimate ternis with Caligula, by whom he had
been selected as his successor to the throne, was also put to death.
Tliereupon Caligula granted a largess to the aruiy, “as though he
had triumphed over the enemy.” Dio evidently does not believe ia
the truth oi these charges, ior he continues, “ Gaius wrote aud sent
to the senate an account oi these matters, as though he had escaped
from plats against his life. On other occasions, too, he was wont to
ieign that his lile vias passed amid great dangers.'¹

Paga 82. 1, , potissimum: adverb, rather tinen any one else. ‹

3. numquam non . . . novissimus: always last.

5. etiam cognitio, aa: the servate entertained a nicoliae to illaes-
tipate a case ircaolainy tlte serpery os a taill, *talitali Claudias, too, aaa
sianed as witness. ’

7. novi sacerdotii: instituted hy Gaius 3 see Oaiiy. chap. 22. 21r

9. obligatam aerario iidem: ais bolla pledged to the tveasann.
Aeraria is dative,

10, in vacuum lege praediatoria, ac. : that by edict of tlte prac-
sects (i. e. oi the treasury) ln's property luas offeredfor sale to ineat the
deliciante, in acacianae coita tlte lata governing corasiscation. The
exact meaning oi the expression ia 'caeliani is a matter ol coniectare.
Other possible, hut not prohahle, interpretatione are: ‘in mockcry,'
ie. no real sale was to take place, it was advertised simply to cast
ridicule upon Claudius ; ‘in vain,’ ia no purchaser could be found.
Venalis agrees with the subject oi the verb, le. Claudias. pepen-
den't: from pendeo, au idiom meaning that his goods, not he, were
offered ior sale.

12. quinquagesimo anno: 41 an.

13. quantumvis: equivaleut to valde or perannat.

 

