rrae 111] roras ou rano. 283

31. de Claudio: ac. concerning his death as narrated in the
¹ preceding Life. lt was eoncealed until all was ready tor the proclama-
tion oi Nero as emper0r3 cs. Claud. ehap. 45. 26,

32. inter horam sextam septimamque: between 12 andi ear.
See note on p. 73. 22. processit, etc. .· cs. Tacitus' account, Arra.
xii. 69 (54 111.) : “ At last, on the thirteenth day of October, at uoon,
the gates oi the palaee were suddenly threwn open, and Nero, ae-
eonrpanied by Burrus, went forth to the eohort, which, according to
the eustom oi tbe army, was keeping watch. There, upon a signal
made by the praeieet he was received with shouts oi joy, and instantly
put into a litter. It was reported that there were some who hesitated,
looking back anxiously and frequently asking where Britannicus was,
butas no one came iorward to oppose it, they embraced the chalce
which was offered them. Thus Nero was borne to the camp, where,
atter a speech suitable te the erigency, and the promise oi a largess
equal tc that oi the late emperor, his father, he was saluted emperor.
The eboice of the soldiers was followed by the deerees oi the senate;
nor was there any hesitation 111 the several provinces.¹' Xiph, hri. 3,

' says that this speech delivered to the soldiers had been composed by
Seneca, as well as the one made afterward 111 the senate.

Page 111. 1. diritatem: ie. the astrologers had announced the
’ conditions unfavcrable up to that time. Tacitus states that Agrippina
J was concealing the news oi her husband's death until the astrolegers
should repert favorable conditions. ¹
. 3. in castra: ia. the permanent camp on the outskirts oi Rome.
See note on p. 22. 15.
8. orsus hinc, etc: the idea is that he began immediately to
’, make a display oi his filial regard.
9. laudavit et consecravit: cs. Claud. chap. 45. 1. Tac, Arra
xiii. 3, states that as long as Nero stuck to the truth 111 his eulogy,
Ἴ he was given a serious hearing 3 but when he rell into errant aetery,
¹ . speaking ot Claudius’ forethougbt and wisdem, no oue could keep
back his laughter. This speech had been eornposedfor him by Seneca
and in his wonted style, whieh was rnueh admired at that time.
lo. matri summam, cte: ef. Tac. Arari.. xiii. 2. xiph, lxi. 3, re-
latos that Agrippina and her son often appeared 111 publia in'the same
litter; that Agrippina answered ambassadors and sent replies to
nations, princes, aud kings, and that finally her'aspiraticns were
checked by the policy of Burrus and Seneca.
' 14. Antium: see note cn p. 23. 10.

 

