252 roras ou carnotus. [rra ao

6. peregrinitatis reum: te. charged with having unlawluhy
exereised the rights of a Roman citizen.

7. togatumne, cta: ii he wore the toga, his innocense was con-
ceded ς ir the pallium, his guilt was taken tor granted.

10. ex tabella: te. in writing‚ as though handing down an irn-
portant decision.

15. mortuus est, inquit: puto, licuit: lte ts alcad, saal he,· ills
excuse ia, Itale a, a pood oue. The lawyer is ridiculing Claudius, the
Judge. ’

17. ct tamen fieri solet ε thisis equivalent to sarving, ‘yet 'there
is nothing to thani< you for atter all)

22. Graeculo: see note on p. 8. 9. .

23. καὶσὺ γέρων εἲ καὶ μώρόςι lloa art both aa ola raca arad a
scol.

30. gessit et censuram: 47 an. The chronicie oi Eusebius
states that under Claudius, attactu citizens were enumerated. in-
termissam diu post Plancum, etc. : Plancus and Paulus were cen-
sorsin the year 21 ΞΗ) Dio, liv, 2, relates that when the senate
desired tc make Augrrstus perpetual censor, he refused the honor and
appointed Plancus and Paulus, and that these were the last private
citizens to hold the office together. From this time on, the emperors
discharged the duties of the office under‘the title praefectura prorata.
Sometimes, but rarely, the title censor was assumed when a census
was actually held, as in the case mentioned in the text. Plancus and·
Paulus reflected no credit upon Augustus, since Paulus was incapable
and Plancus a reprobate 3 cs. Veli. Pat. ii. 95.

31. inaequabiliter varioque et animo, eta: slotclap tle sarrae
instabilius cs character aad errata coaestuet.

Page 87. , 2. censorem suum : te. his father.

5. aetatulae indulgeret: sora his aetla oats ‚⁴ note the diminutive,
and cs. pelliculam carare, Hor. Ser. ii. 5. 383 the diminutive in such
expressions denotes affectionate interest.

6. quare enim scio, etc. .· sor alp do poa let rae lcaorc cahat atis-
tress poa lreep, te. why are you not more circumspect in your intrigues.

8. litura tamen, inquit, exstet: to he understood as one oi
Claudius' keen remarks.

9. Graeciaeque provinciae: le. the province ot Achaia, which
was nowthe politicai name oi Greece.

10. albo: the albam, iit. ‘a white *tablet’ is the regular word ior
alist or register. in peregrinitatem redegit: le. deprived ci

 

