arb ’ noras ou ennunrus. [eren ea

lllemmian and other manuscripts. The Gudianus inserts an at after·
vetere. ’ In view oi these facts, lhm suggests that qai wras lacking in
the archetype, and that at had fallen out aiter nobilibus, Ii seems
saier, however, to follow Paris elie, with Roth.

7. convivae: his name was T. Vinius3 cf. Tac. Hist. 1,·48,

11. cognoscens: here used with its technical meaning. Au-
gusti loro: the second oi the imperial sore bulliat Rome, the first
being the fortun Iulii, constructed hy Julius Caesar. 'l'he forant
Arrpn'sti was northeast oi the old rorum, separated from it by thes*
fornia bitti. It iras here that Augustus built the Aedes learns men-
tioned below; ef. note on p. 66. 3. ’ .

13. Saliis: the banquets prepared ior the Salian priests were pro-
verbial lor their magnificence3 cf. Hor. Cerne i. 37. 2. These were
serred aiter the annual processior] on the first ol March, the anniver-
sary oi the falling oi the sacred shield from heaven.

14. temere umquam: scarcely ever.

17. somni breuissimi: the genitive is predicative5 see Introd. 11.
§Q d.

18. ut tamen: leotraitlestaadiap terrica* lit. ‘so that nevertheless.' ·

23. essedo: see note ou p. 53. 2. alveoque: the alveus was a
gamhling table ‘or board, and in the present instance wius swung in
some manner so as to be unaffected by the motion ol the carriage. ἢ

·25. poenaeque parricidarum: parricidas were flogged, sewed in
abag with a dog, a ecch, a viper, and an ape, and thrown into the
sea. Seneca, De Clean. i. 23, remarks that rnore parricides were pun-
ished in this way under Claudius than in all preceding ages.

26. repraesentabat exigebatque eoram : was eterit to caelet et
ortae aad ia his presence.

27. antiqui moris supplicium-2 explained by Eutropius, vii. 15:
qaae poetae erat tulis, nt atridas per· perbiterint dactus saraa captiti eius
inserte, bimis usque ad mortem caederetur atque iio praecipitaretur
de saeo; te. irem the Tarpeian rock. As a matter of course, when
,the execution did not take place at Rome, the body could not be
hurled from the Tarpeian roek. Cf. also Nero, chap. 49, 14 aeq.

28. Tiburi: see note on p. 45. 29.

29. vesperam usque: usqae with an accusative of words other
than the nantes oi rorans is post-Augustan. ’

31, munere : ablativa oi tinre.

32. retiarius : see note on p. 59. 4.

Paga 99. 3. meridianis: the gladiatore who fought at midday,

 

