rrae 51] norns on ciricum. 209

12. pari·popuiaritate. . . restituit: lic occaecat himself equally
popctlrn' by restoring, otc.

14. gratiam iecit: corcloaocl. commentarios: Dio, lix. 4,
states that the letters turned were copies, not the real ones; cf. Calin.
ehap. 30. 30. ’

18. libellum de salute: acicernoriol calatino to his persancti safcly.

19. nihil sibi admissum: thot lic lcccl heca yzrllcy os ao crime.
On the construction oi sihi, see Introd. ΙΙ. ξ 2, o (i). Note that tlre
word carractere indicates the moral liability3 committere, the overt
act.

21. spinthrias: sodomites. aegre ne.. .exoratua: colla
difficulty crcoollcrl accon aot, ac. Υ

22. Titi Labieni: arr orator and author oi the tinre oi Augustus3
a hitter opponent oi the imperIal regime. ’

23. Cordi Cremuti: an historiari who wrote oi the achievements
oi Augustus. SeeTlh.cl1ap. 61. 21, and note. cassi Severi:a
Roman orator exiled hy Augustus. Tacitus, Anac. i. 72, says tlrat it
was the virirlent attacks oi Cassius upon people oi distinction that
caused Augustus to apply the law oiranlcstcs to libellous writings.

25. sua: tlre ablativa with interest ; ior origin oi construction, see
Bennett, ripyiornlia to Lat. Grani. 249, 3.

26. rationes imperii : this statement ci the financial condition oi
the empne—a practice begun hy Augustus—had been neglected
aiter Tiberius' retirement to Capri. Of. Dio, lix. 9: “Following the ’,
example oi Augustus, he (Gaius) now made up and published an ’
account oi the state revennes, which had not been made public since
tire withdrawal ci Tiberirrs.¹' Ι

29. sine sui appellatione: colthocct apocal to irinc ,¹ sai is objectiva
genitive. ’

31. equo: tlre coctiles carracciaco, having long ceased to serve as
cavalry in tlre army, would have disappaared with the other obsoleta
military divisione lrad not Augustus revived them and sent out under
experienced generals those knights oi distinction who intended to fol-
low a military career, to leam their iutnre profession. To take away
the horse was equivalent to deprivation oi rank.

32. nominibus modo: te. the only mark oi disapprobation was
the omission oi their names in reading the roll oi knights. ’

Pago 51, 2. quintam decuriam, eto: according to the loc Acre-
. lio, ΤΟ na, jurors were selected from the three classes-senators,
knights, and tribnat accorti. Each class formed a clericidas Augu&

 

