312 ’ nonus or nuno. [rien 137

puts these words in Nero’s mouth just before his death, at the time he
heard the approaching horscmen, as narrated in Nero, chap. 49, 11.

7. sed revocato, etc: checbiap his violent impiata,- the re and
rursus together are tautological and used ior emphasis. Suetonius'
power oi description is seen to the best advantage in the account oi
the flight and last moments oi Nero. He becomes almost dramatic.
His account ci Caesar’s assassination is also good.
³ 9. Phaonte: this ireedman is mentioned only in connection with
Nero's death.

10. Salariam et Nomentanam viam: the Via Solaria ertended
to the northeast ironr Rome. So named because used by the Sabines
forthe transportation oi salt irom the coast. The Via narranaam
leit Rome hy the porto Collina and extended to Nomentum. . ψ

14. quattuor solis: Xiphilin‚ lxiii. 27, assigns him but three com-
pantons, Phaon, Epaphroditus and Sporus. Josephns, Beli. Iud. iv.
9. 2, agrees with Suetonius.

15. Sporus: aiavorite ireedman oi Nero. statimque tre
more terrae, etc: Xiphilin, lxiii. 28, says that the earth was rent
asuuder by this earthquake and it seemed to Nero as ii the souls oi
those he had slain were issuing thereirom and rushing upon him.
adverso: tbctfloshed ia tisscce.

20. odore: the Memm. manuscript has eodone, ior wluch Roth
reads aa odore. Becker would read odore, which, moreoyer, has the
authority oi one manuscript.

22. missicio: retireal.

23. per arundineti semitam: lantino hierony throapli c thick
prototh of raetis.

, 24. aegre nec nisi, eta: raith difficulty crzd only oster spreodinp
parthenis, etc. Α

26. specum egestae harenae: risorio pit.

29. ex subiecta lacuna: ydola aa orijacent poci. poturus:
Introd. Il. §4, α. ’

30. haec est, etc: light is thrown on this by Pliny, N. Η. xxxi.
39, who relates that Nero had his water distilled, and cooled by plac-
ing it in a gloss vessel in snow.

31. traiectos surculos rasit: trusted off the twips thot badpierced
bis cloch. This appears better than the common rendering, ‘he crept
over houghs spread across his path' 3 apoetical use oi radere. ·

32. per angustias effossae cavernae: ttrouqt α aaaron opening}
orode ia the wall. proximam cellam: te. the first hut, probably
aslave's lodging-place¹ that they came to within the grounds. ’

 

