254 uorns ou ennomus. [rial aa

temper, precipitate in forming schcmes and unstrady in pursning
them, together with the ill success cibis mighty attempts against Ger-
many‚ rendered the design abortire. Claudius accomplished the un-
dertnking,t1·aiisporting the legions and auxiliarios, and associating
Vespasian in the direction oi affairs.'¹ Dio, lx. 19, states that Beri-
cus, one oi tlie malcontents who had been expelled irom the island,
inipelled Claudius to undertake the expedition. ”

6. circio: Pliny, N. H. ii. 121, thus describes this wind: “ In the
province oi Narbonne, the most noted wind is the Circius3 itis not
inferior to any oi the winds in violence, frequently driving the waves
before it to Ostia, straight across the Ligurian sea. Yet this wind is
unknown in other parts, not even reaching Vienne, a city in the same
province.'’ ’

7. Stoechadas insulas: les isles cl'Hibres, off Marseilles; cs.
Strabo, ir. 1. ll), “Lying oli this narrow pass, along the coast as you
begin your journey from Marseilles‚ are tlie Stoechadas islands.
Three *are oi considerable extent, and two are small.’'

8. Gesoriacum: also known as Bononio, the modern 1100109111-
sur-illes.

9. intra paucissimosdies: according to Dio, lir. 23, he spent but
sixteen (lays in Britain, returning to Rome aiter an absence oi six
months. ’ ’

10. sexto quam proiectus erat, etc: ior construction, cf. note
on p. 32, 17. ἱ

11. triumphavitqne: according to Dio, lr. 23, besides performing
the usual ceremonies, Claudius crawled up tlie steps oi the Capitol on
his hands and knees, aided by his sons-in-law, onc on euch side.

13. praesidibus: see note on p. 20, 16,

14. navalem coronam: the crown iras formed to represent the
beaks oi ships, and before the period oi the empire was only granted
to theman who first boarded the enemy's vessel.

15. iuxta civicam: see note on p. 17. 26, Α

17. secuti et . . . adepti: they, too, followed, icto hod obtained,
etc. ,

19. veste palmata: the tunica embroidercd with paim branchos
in gold. '

20. quod eum honorem, etc. : because tbtswos the second tinto he
hod obtained the bonor.

22. Aemiliana: supposed to be a poor suburb oi Rome, situated
near ilie Portu Fontinalis, on the site oi what was afterward the
Forum oi 'lb'aJ'an in diribitorio: ahuge structure near the Saepta,

 

